Emet offers you a massage, and things become more heated than you expected.
As you reach the final step, Emet-Selch appears from the aether to study your wayward companions.
Minfilia is fast asleep in Thancred’s arms, but it doesn’t stop him from silently snarling at Emet as he passes.
Emet smirks and shrugs theatrically as you shoot him a withering glare.
“How interesting,” Emet says, pondering your words as you come to a halt before a curtained off building.
“This,” says the Vii, “is where you shall stay tonight.” She motions to you and Emet.
Emet saunters in behind you, the smirk on his face extremely loud.
“Oh come now my dear, surely a massage is not a foreign concept to you?” Emet rolls his eyes.
Emet stands, removing his gloves with immaculate teeth, tossing them down on the table.
After a moment, the bed dips by your hip as Emet swings his leg over your hips.
“So, Warrior, where is your pain,” Emet asks, smooth and gentle, quiet even.
You shiver at the cold touch of the lotion, but it slowly warms as Emet’s hands move, pressing and exploring softly.
“Careful warrior, make noises like that and I might get ideas,” Emet says, working his way down your arms and to your hands.
Suddenly, the air stands still for a moment, Emet looking at you looking at him.
For one moment, you look at him differently, and have the horrible feeling that Emet might just break.
Emet buries his face in your neck, pulling you flush against his chest, picking up the pace.
It doesn’t take long, Emet biting your shoulder, shuddering silently as he goes over the edge, orgasming in silence as you come moments later.
You stay that way a moment, listening to your pulse thundering in your ears, hand lazily dancing patterns into Emet’s back.
Emet looks down at you, lips kiss bruised, and hair wild with sweat.
After you spend the night with Emet-Selch morning comes to the Greatwood, and with it a few surprises.
Emet-Selch has not moved since you first awoke, and you wonder if you should rouse him.
Emet gives a mock sneer, moving so your noses almost touch.
Emet makes a small noise in the back of his throat, a sound you aren’t quite sure the meaning of.
Emet’s cheeks are alight warmth, and you feel your own pulse booming thunderously through your veins.
Emet huffs out a laugh, grinding down softly on your thigh.
Emet-Selch takes great pleasure in this revelation, laving his tongue down, down, before he stops right above your aching arousal.
Emet’s hand pulls your fist out of your mouth, twining your fingers with his.
Emet senses your finish, replacing his tongue with his other hand, deftly moving over your arousal.
Emet lays his head against your thigh, stroking your stomach as you come down from your high, warm and lazy.
Emet hisses at the friction, bowing his head as you reach down to pull at the hem of the garment.
Emet’s eyes explore yours, the silent question on his face loud in your mind.
Emet shushes you, nuzzling his face into your neck as you breath, running his hands up and down your now sweat slicked sides.
Emet rocks his hips at your sound of approval and you gasp.
“Emet,” you say, hips grinding down, “for the love of the Twelve, fuck me.”
Emet suddenly pulls you up and into his lap, blunt fingernails ripping down your spine.
You pitch forward, hands resting on Emet’s shoulders as he angles his hips, throbbing member slamming deep into your core.
Emet grows still at last, and you tremble as he pulls out, lowering you down on the bed.
Emet-Selch watches as your thought process comes to an end, with a shake of your head.
Emet grins filthily, “Who knew the Warrior of Light was such a minx.
Your feelings must show, because Emet’s eyes soften, and he reaches to cup your chin.
The second Rak’tikan night is upon you, and Emet offers to show you wonders no one has seen.
You startle, head whipping down to find Emet-Selch studying you curiously.
Emet saunters forward, leaning against the trunk in the empty spot next to your seated body.
Emet-Selch is a man, an Ascian, shrouded in as many mysteries as you.
Emet makes not a sound as you enjoy the melody of the night, the soft puffs of his breathing the only thing to betray his presence.
Unless, of course, you wanted to plunge to your death,” Emet says as he rouses you.
“Come,” Emet says, “Let's get you to bed before you somehow toss yourself to your doom.
You step back, looking at Emet-Selch as he taps an impatient foot on the ground.
“Perish the thought,” Emet exclaims, “Your friends already seem scandalized at the thought of me sharing your bed, imagine if you pointed that detail out.” He tilts his head impishly, “Thancred would behead me.”
Emet’s smile drops after a beat, and he studies you intently.
Your banter never ceased it seemed, but the moments it dropped Emet always looked at you like you were some impossible creature.
Traversing space outside an aetheryte path is rather hard on the mortal body,” Emet says to you.
You don’t realize you’ve said that out loud until Emet responds.
Emet stands silent beside you, eyes roving your face as you take in all of the caves splendor.
Emet puts you down, and you gasp, feet hitting solid air.
Emet cuts you off with a flourish,” Trade secret my dear.
Emet tries to touch a few, perhaps to create music of his own, but they curl up angrily, and his sneers at them, face dropping into a sullen pout.
Time moves slowly, as Emet’s eyes widen, surprise flitting across his golden irises.
Emet turns, walking into the portal, almost through before you lunge after him from your place on the ground.
With gray streaked hair framing his sharp jaw and slender neck, Emet-Selch is an all too familiar creature.
Emet removes his outer robe, helping you to move on top of it, its soft surface shielding your skin from the cold of the stone floor.
Slowly, the tendrils caresses you, eliciting a tiny gasp from your lips, breaking away from Emet’s mouth.
Emet shudders at your call, the darkness around him growing denser by the second, and you can feel his need.
Emet shakes his head, and gives you a sad look, smiling .
And then you are back, your orgasm ripping through you, Emet pressing his lips to yours.
Emet caresses your neck, face nuzzled into your hair as his breathing slows down, body draping over your own.
Emet shushes you, moving his head to rest on your chest.
Regal and arrogant, Emet stands over you, blocking out the pale rays of the moon.
Emet removes his hand from your neck, and you almost whine at the loss.
Whether they live or die should be none of our concern.” Emet declares.
Emet waves a hand in front of him, frustration lacing his words.
You snort at his response, “What do you know of my importance, might I ask?” Emet gives you a heated look.
Emet cocks his head at you, strikingly similar to a curious bird.
Emet takes one step, then two, carefully closing the small distance that separates you.
“Look at you all flustered, Tsk.” Emet’s eyes grow soft, and distant.
I suppose I can make do with that,” Emet replies haughtily.
Emet startles out of his thoughts, eyes swiveling from the heavens to focus on your face in mild confusion.
Aza hadn’t been the same since the whole Lightwarden and Emet-Selch business.
While Emet-Selch’s  delightful  hospitality had a lingering effect on him, the pain and damage was mostly superficial at this point.
“After Emet-Selch has drastically reduced my tolerance to leave the Crystal Tower.”
Emet-Selch had come to this unsatisfactory conclusion when he realised that said Warrior of Light had stormed Amaurot without a single plan of action.
Emet-Selch knew the second they stepped foot into his territory - he could practically  taste  that fractured soul screaming in agony from miles away - and had braced himself for some madcap plan akin to the giant Talos smashing through his simulacrum to get to him.
Emet-Selch  did  have to admit that he was  mildly  impressed this half-broken thing was managing to shamble about like this.
Emet-Selch even indulged in a little, private clap on his behalf.
Emet-Selch almost felt bad at how pointless this show of stubbornness was, though.
Emet-Selch would make sure to track its reincarnation process this time.
‘Aza’ abruptly stopped, doubling over, and Emet-Selch watched in open interest as the Light  flared.
It was pathetic with how he was going on like this, and Emet-Selch didn’t want him  vomiting  his Light all over his precious Amaurot simulacrum.
No matter how many times Emet-Selch met this soul, broken apart, it carried on its originator’s will with  frustrating  dedication.
It made Emet-Selch’s skin crawl, as it did every time he encountered a Sundered who looked at him with blank incomprehension, their memories of their  true selves  an empty, black void of  nothing,  ignorant of their true worth, of what they  were.
Emet-Selch clenched his hands hard enough to hurt - but after a moment relaxed them with a slow, heavy exhale.
Emet-Selch would find another fragment or wait for the reincarnation process to bring him back into contact with this one.
and ruin everything as usual, then Emet-Selch would kill him, and see if there was anything to salvage from his soul before letting it re-enter the Lifestream.
Sometimes, Emet-Selch  swore  he could see a glimmer of  knowledge  in him.
Emet-Selch was going to extract his pound of flesh, slowly,  thoroughly.
“I thought I made it clear that I wished to be alone?”   he said with feigned mildness, not turning to look,   “Emet-Selch.”
“You failed to attend yet another meeting,”   Emet-Selch continued after a long, heavy pause, blatantly ignoring his bristling,   “That is unlike you, -̷̡̪̌͜-̸͇͔̻͈̦͎̯͔̏-̴̳̥̱̞̆̃̒̔̂́͋-̶͚̟͓̥͎̏̓͊̑͝-̶̛̫̼͍̗̭̗́͗̎͐̓̂͘͘͜͜-̵͙̱͉̤̱͛͐̊̏̍̒͝͠ͅ-̴̳͔̱̙̽͝.”
The pleasant stillness of this shaded balcony suddenly felt chilly and unwelcoming, Emet-Selch’s presence a hot brand on the edge of his awareness.
He shoved him out aggressively, and Emet-Selch retreated from that intimate place without a fuss.
“-̷̡̪̌͜-̸͇͔̻͈̦͎̯͔̏-̴̳̥̱̞̆̃̒̔̂́͋-̶͚̟͓̥͎̏̓͊̑͝-̶̛̫̼͍̗̭̗́͗̎͐̓̂͘͘͜͜-̵͙̱͉̤̱͛͐̊̏̍̒͝͠ͅ-̴̳͔̱̙̽͝," Emet-Selch crooned, his tone shifting into something placating,   “Refusing to contribute is not the answer.”
“Your report stated that we have less than four weeks until it reaches Amaurot,”    Emet-Selch interrupted, his own tone growing short,   “We cannot debate and squabble over other potential solutions while the apocalypse is practically on our doorstep.”
Emet-Selch had grown very still, and he felt anger - so much anger, bubbling in him, fizzing out, making it difficult to think straight.
Emet-Selch’s minor betrayal was so petty in comparison to that, yet it hurt the most.
Emet-Selch gently nudged at the border of his soul, concerned, apologetic.
“Mm,” Ryne was giving him a thoughtful look, “You said ‘Emet-Selch’ a few times, but the rest was… um, I didn’t understand the words very well.”
He had a faint impression of being annoyed at him, but that was pretty much the default emotion when dealing with Emet-Selch, so…
Hythlodaeus was unhappy, in the same way that Hades had been unhappy with him.
“It’s simply… you should make up with Emet-Selch before you leave,” Hythlodaeus said pointedly, “He will be simply intolerable if you left without a goodbye, and you cannot be so cruel as to inflict that on Amaurot in your absence.”
Prometheus laughed quietly at that, his mood lifting at imagining the well respected Hades sulking and being bratty during the daily Convocation Meetings because of him.
Hades had to know that, but once more, that sentimental idiot was being led by his feelings, rather than rational thought.
All he could do now was wait for the weapon to finalise, and after quickly checking the time, Prometheus decided he’d given Hythlodaeus long enough to smooth down Hades’s ruffled feathers.
Hythlodaeus didn’t fully understand, and neither did Hades, but they did indulge in his little vice where most would have looked down on him for his… flaw.
“... he can deal,” Prometheus muttered, tapping his mask and willing it and the hood to stay in place before turning on his heel and teleporting to Hades’s residence.
For someone dubbed ‘The Architect’, Hades’s residence was rather modest and discreet.
Where most Convocation members tended to situate their homes in isolated corners of the city, to better focus over the din of millions of souls brushing up against their awareness, Hades was a weird one who enjoyed being right in the thick of it.
Prometheus found it exhausting and irritating just during his working hours, so he honestly had no idea how Hades dealt with it 24/7.
He could sense Hythlodaeus and Hades in there - and no doubt they could sense  him  - but with him blocking everyone out, he couldn’t quite gauge the mood in there.
He cautiously uncurled, filtering out the white noise of  millions, to feel Hythlodaeus’s flutter of concern and Hades’ bristling irritation.
Hades’s home was one of those new builds that occupied its own instance separated from Amaurot’s dimension, so it resembled a large house inside, despite occupying the space of a shoebox room in Amaurot.
It was Hades’s ‘great achievement’ that had him considered for the Emet-Selch title all those centuries ago, as it cut down on the housing crisis by allowing for more homes built on a smaller area.
Prometheus still hadn’t figured out how he did it, something Hades was still  insufferably  smug about to this day.
With how long you loitered out there, I thought you were going to run away,” Hades said the second Prometheus stepped into the drawing room, where he received his closest friends regularly.
Hades was slouched in his usual squashy armchair, with Hythlodaeus on the sofa across from him.
“I’m here to extend an olive branch,” Prometheus mumbled, shifting his weight as he felt Hades prod at his soul’s border.
Kindly, Hades blocked that noise out for him, and he relaxed a fraction, “If you’d accept it.”
“Hmm…” Hades drew out, and across from him Hythlodaeus was watching them both hawkishly, his soul nudging at them to  play nice.
“Are you still departing for the outer regions tomorrow?” Hades asked idly, and his soul felt like the soft pawprints of a cat walking up and down his spine, showing none of the irritation Prometheus had felt outside.
“I know,” Hades interrupted, “I still don’t like it, but… Hythlodaeus was  very  persuasive in reminding me that you would be delivering an important contribution with this expedition.”
Prometheus waited, because Hades did like delivering a surprise stinger sometimes, but he was being sincere.
Ah, Hythlodaeus was honestly a miracle worker, able to temper even Hades’s mercurial moods.
Hades waved a hand carelessly, summoning a platter of tea and treats with barely a thought.
“Yes, fine,” Hades grumbled, but it was mostly for show, “Come here.
He filed the observations away, hopping up onto the armchair next to Hades’s.
“What is that guise you’re wearing?” Hades asked, “You have a tail now.”
“I think we should be deciding how to  stop  the plague first,” Hades countered, “Have you seen the proposal for the Zodiark Concept yet?”
“I haven’t,” Hades said carefully, “But it’s our best option until we know more about the situation.”
“Thanks, Emet-Selch,” he said, glancing over to Hythlodaeus to give him a more subtle thanks for easing Hades up from his earlier snit by brushing up against his soul’s border like a purring cat.
“You once challenged me to a duel because I told you gargoyles are a tacky aesthetic,” Hades said flatly, looking back at him.
Hades looked over to Hythlodaeus in open disbelief, as if to say ‘can you believe this?’
Though they bickered and argued often, there was something about Hades that always made him feel happy.
Hades’ voice filtered in like bad static, the familiar sight of his bedroom ceiling spinning like a demented merry-go-round.
A strained, tinny noise of agony left him, because everything was loud  (like that scream that scream that scream)  because Hades’s home was in the  middle of Amaurot  and millions of souls crashed over his bleeding borders, drowning him, and he couldn’t  get them out -
Hades was now leaning over him, his mask nowhere to be seen, dark brown hair tumbling into his eyes, his hands clasped over Prometheus’s damp cheeks.
Hades was gently sheltering him from the din of Amaurot, and it felt like cold water splashed over a searing burn.
I am, he thought dizzily, but he realised that he was also shying away from Hades’s soul, scrunching tight like an animal dying under a low-sitting porch.
Hades still nudged at him, trying to heal, and Prometheus stayed curled up, refusing to move.
“Hythlodaeus,” Hades muttered, leaning away, but still keeping his hands on his cheeks, “Call Hythlodaeus, now!”
“Calling Hythlodaeus,”  a soft, artificial voice hummed, followed by a sleep-rough, familiar voice of,  “Emet-Selch?
He felt like a soaked sponge, water just running out of him, except it was aether, just pouring out - then a sensation like it was pouring back in, warm and gentle - Hythlodaeus  -and he uncurled, enough -  Hades and Hythlodaeus  - until his mind could think beyond  that scream  and  that pain  and  the Doom is coming I have to tell them that it is, that it is-
He came back to himself sprawled out in Hades’s bed, sticky with sweat and limbs shaking violently, his soul feeling raw but with its borders restored, if tender.
Hades was still blanketing him, keeping the worst of Amaurot’s din out, his hand on his shoulder.
“Amaurot,” Hades said tightly, “You teleported into my bed, screeching like a dying animal.”
Hades kept up the calming gentle vibes, despite the unhappy, tense expression on his face.
“Something,” he said, when Hades gave him a very cautious nudge, “Tried to claw into me.
Hades’s fingers clenched into a bruising grip on his shoulder, “There’s nothing there,” he said firmly, “I’ve checked,  thoroughly.”
“Emet-Selch,” Hythlodaeus said softly, “We need to get him medical attention.
Hades’s soul prickled almost possessively, blanketing tighter around him, feeling jagged and angry.
Prometheus felt Hades pull away, and he panicked, gripping at his wrist blindly.
Prometheus’s return hadn’t been missed, as he had practically broadcasted his agony all over Amaurot before Hades managed to mute it.
Hades ground his teeth together so hard his jaw hurt, “For all his  cockiness,” he gritted out, “He knows when to tread cautiously.
Hades had been blocking their Zodiark Concept proposal with the excuse that they couldn’t hold a vote without everyone present, but if one of their own was hospitalised for severe injury, then…
Hades almost objected - a week was  nothing  for them - but he remembered the state of Prometheus when he tumbled onto his bed, screaming like he was dying.
It had been awful, feeling his agony and terror just spilling out mindlessly, with Hades only barely able to staunch the bleed.
“Hm?” Hades didn’t look up from some architect designs sprawled out on the table before him, “Combine what?”
Hades paused, staring fixedly at the corner of one design sheet before slowly lifting his gaze to where Prometheus was sipping his coffee like he hadn’t just suggested something  totally  indecent over the breakfast table.
“Uh huh,” Hades said, practically oozing doubt as he gave his friend a suspicious look.
In fact, knowing what Hades did about Prometheus, he could safely hypothesise that this ‘experiment’ would result in Prometheus caving first as he was  pathetically  sensitive if you knew the right places to touch-
Abruptly, Hades found himself much more amicable to the idea, and he smiled.
Without his mask in place, Hades had the total delight in watching Prometheus’s face flush, his gaze quickly dropping and looking away.
After countless  centuries  with this man, Hades knew how to play him like a cheap fiddle.
“Admit it, you prefer it like this,” Hades drawled, reaching out to nudge his foot against Prometheus’s ankle, lazily reaching to the edge of his friend’s soul to brush up against is teasingly, “Being a pillow queen-”
“I am  not  a pillow queen!” Prometheus huffed, going stiff-backed at Hades’s gentle touch.
His pupils were dilated though, the blush high on his cheeks - he could feel the warm thrum of arousal twine through his friend’s soul, and Hades basked in it.
So, Hades drew back, didn’t bother hiding his smirk when Prometheus let out a disappointed noise.
“Take initiative, then,” Hades challenged, “You did propose this experiment, after all.
Over a week later, long enough for Hades to sort of forget about the whole thing, Prometheus acted when his guard was at its lowest.
It had been a satisfyingly productive day, one where Hades got to flex his Creation magics by constructing a brand new and modern building for the Bureau of Administration in only a handful of hours.
“It’s been a while since I’ve seen you this tired,” Prometheus hummed as they entered Hades’s apartment.
“Call me that again, and I  will  turn you into an otter for a month,” Hades said without any heat, tugging his mask off and sweeping his hood back in one motion.
For a respected member of the Convocation, he was  shockingly  slovenly, even by Hades’s standards.
“Hey,” Prometheus continued as Hades debated whether or not to have a nap, “Why don’t we celebrate your achievement today?”
“It’s hardly an achievement,” Hades said, “But if you’re giving me a gift, I won’t say no.”
Hades had to think on it for a hot second, before remembering.
“If you’re up for it,” Prometheus said, and Hades knew if he said no, his friend would back off instantly.
Hades tilted his head, looked at Prometheus from beneath his eyelashes.
“I’m not doing  all  the work,” Prometheus huffed, but he did snap his fingers and teleported them directly to Hades’s bed with their robes ‘helpfully’ vanishing along the way.
Hades was unimpressed, sprawled out messily on his back as Prometheus sat proudly on his stomach, “That was shockingly lazy.”
Interesting comparison to make, but not something Hades entirely disagreed with.
Hades had the faintest sensation of something scratching lightly down his back, making his skin prickle pleasantly.
Hades made a pleased noise, had to bite the inside of his cheek to stop his grin when Prometheus’s  reacted, pupils dilating at that quiet little noise as his arousal spiked.
Hades almost forgot they were meant to be doing something else other than basking in each other until Prometheus started to jerkily, clumsily grind down against his belly.
Hades blindly groped downwards, until he could dig his nails into Prometheus’s thighs - firm and taut with well-toned muscle, being one of the few Amaurotines who did  not  shirk heavy physical activity - arching his lower back to press up against him.
It took Hades entirely by surprise, knocking him out of the relaxing, rhythmic flow of pleasure he’d sunk into - just in time to feel Prometheus release all over his stomach.
“Ah,” Hades murmured roughly, still a bit disorientated from the rough pause, as he opened his eyes to see Prometheus sitting stock still on his stomach, one hand over his mouth and clearly mortified at his very very  very  quick orgasm, “That was fast.”
Hades gently scratched his fingernails down Prometheus’s still trembling thighs, then kneaded his knuckles into them, until his friend caught his breath and stopped looking ready to spontaneously combust on the spot.
“It’s fine,” Hades said honestly, smirking up at his embarrassed friend, “You lasted, oh, a few more seconds that I thought you would…”
“Hades!” Prometheus huffed, bristling like an offended kitten, “As if you would have done any better!”
Prometheus attempted to smother him with his own pillow, and after an  incredibly  childish tussle that was utterly unbefitting of two well respected members of the Convocation, they both sprawled out side by side on the bed, Hades dozy but content.
Not particularly, but Prometheus did a lot of things Hades didn’t understand but still indulged him in.
Hades never knew why he played coy like that - in an hour or so he’d be like an octopus, clinging to him and squeezing the life out of him.
