The process had begun in the writing of _The Hobbit,_ in which there were already some references to the older matter: Elrond, Gondolin, the High-elves, and the orcs, as well as glimpses that had arisen unbidden of things higher or deeper or darker than its surface: Durin, Moria, Gandalf, the Necromancer, the Ring.
As is told in The Hobbit, there came one day to Bilbo's door the great Wizard, Gandalf the Grey, and thirteen dwarves with him: none other, indeed, than Thorin Oakenshield, descendant of kings, and his twelve companions in exile.
Gandalf, however, disbelieved Bilbo's first story, as soon as he heard it, and he continued to be very curious about the ring.
That also Gandalf thought strange and suspicious; but he did not discover the truth in this point for many more years, as will be seen in this book.
After his return to his home he never spoke of it again to anyone, save Gandalf and Frodo; and no one else in the Shire knew of its existence, or so he believed.
And look at the outlandish folk that visit him: dwarves coming at night, and that old wandering conjuror, Gandalf, and all.
That was Gandalf's mark, of course, and the old man was Gandalf the Wizard, whose fame in the Shire was due mainly to his skill with fires, smokes, and lights.
Inside Bag End, Bilbo and Gandalf were sitting at the open window of a small room looking out west on to the garden.
From the time of Gandalf's arrival he remained hidden from view.
The fireworks were by Gandalf: they were not only brought by him, but designed and made by him; and the special effects, set pieces, and flights of rockets were let off by him.
And there was also one last surprise, in honour of Bilbo, and it startled the hobbits exceedingly, as Gandalf intended.
The invitations were limited to twelve dozen (a number also called by the hobbits one Gross, though the word was not considered proper to use of people); and the guests were selected from all the families to which Bilbo and Frodo were related, with the addition of a few special unrelated friends (such as Gandalf).
At that moment the door opened and Gandalf came quickly in.
I want to see mountains again, Gandalf, _mountains,_ and then find somewhere where I can _rest._ In peace and quiet, without a lot of relatives prying around, and a string of confounded visitors hanging on the bell.
Gandalf looked again very hard at Bilbo, and there was a gleam in his eyes.
'I don't know what has come over you, Gandalf,' he said.
'Indeed it would take away the only point I ever saw in the affair,' said Gandalf.
Gandalf remained for a while staring after him into the darkness.
I think really he preferred slipping off quietly in the end,' said Gandalf.
There were rumours of strange things happening in the world outside; and as Gandalf had not at that time appeared or sent any message for several years, Frodo gathered all the news he could.
It was just at this time that Gandalf reappeared after his long absence.
'So do you,' Frodo replied; but secretly he thought that Gandalf looked older and more careworn.
Gandalf was thinking of a spring, nearly eighty years before, when Bilbo had run out of Bag End without a handkerchief.
Even in the light of morning he felt the dark shadow of the tidings that Gandalf had brought.
'Last night you began to tell me strange things about my ring, Gandalf,' he said.
'Bilbo knew no more than he told you, I am sure,' said Gandalf.
'To tell you the truth,' replied Gandalf, 'I believe that hitherto – _hitherto,_mark you – he has entirely overlooked the existence of hobbits.
It felt suddenly very heavy, as if either it or Frodo himself was in some way reluctant for Gandalf to touch it.
Frodo gave a cry and groped for the tongs; but Gandalf held him back.
After a while Gandalf got up, closed the shutters outside the window, and drew the curtains.
'So do I,' said Gandalf, 'and so do all who live to see such times.
'You ought to begin to understand, Frodo, after all you have heard,' said Gandalf.
'I saw him there,' answered Gandalf, 'but before that he had wandered far, following Bilbo's trail.
He weighed the Ring in his hand, hesitating, and forcing himself to remember all that Gandalf had told him; and then with an effort of will he made a movement, as if to cast it away – but he found that he had put it back in his pocket.
Gandalf sat down again and puffed at his pipe, as if lost in thought.
'Whatever it may do, it will be slow, slow to evil, if you keep it with that purpose,' said Gandalf.
He did not tell Gandalf, but as he was speaking a great desire to follow Bilbo flamed up in his heart – to follow Bilbo, and even perhaps to find him again.
If you don't, if you even breathe a word of what you've heard here, then I hope Gandalf will turn you into a spotted toad and fill the garden full of grass-snakes.'
But so firmly fixed had the notion of the immeasurable wealth of the Bagginses of Bag End become that most found this hard to believe, harder than any other reason or unreason that their fancy could suggest: to most it suggested a dark and yet unrevealed plot by Gandalf.
At first Frodo was a good deal disturbed, and wondered often what Gandalf could have heard; but his uneasiness wore off, and in the fine weather he forgot his troubles for a while.
Autumn was well under way before Frodo began to worry about Gandalf again.
The next day Frodo became really anxious, and kept a constant look-out for Gandalf.
The four younger hobbits were, however, in high spirits, and the party soon became very cheerful in spite of Gandalf's absence.
Frodo was restless and anxious, listening in vain for a sound of Gandalf.
After that, if Gandalf wanted him urgently, he would go to Crickhollow, and might even get there first.
He half expected to see Gandalf come striding up through the dusk.
'I wonder if that is Gandalf coming after us,' said Frodo; but even as he said it, he had a feeling that it was not so, and a sudden desire to hide from the view of the rider came over him.
And if it is Gandalf,' he added as an afterthought, 'we can give him a little surprise, to pay him out for being so late.
'It is,' said Frodo; 'but I thought my going was a secret known only to Gandalf and my faithful Sam.'
I think you should now go at once, without delay; and if Gandalf does not come before you set out, then I also advise this: do not go alone.
If I take your advice I may not see Gandalf for a long while, and I ought to know what is the danger that pursues me.'
You are not a very easy nut to crack, and Gandalf is worse.
But I meant no wrong to you, Mr. Frodo, nor to Mr. Gandalf for that matter.
I could see that even Gildor was disturbed when he heard that Gandalf had never appeared.
Still, I am very glad someone is stopping behind, who can tell Gandalf what you have done, when he turns up, as I am sure he will before long.'
'We could not have left any message behind for Gandalf otherwise.
But if Fatty is willing to hold the fort, and I can be sure of Gandalf knowing the way we have gone, that decides me.
'Tell Gandalf to hurry along the East Road: we shall soon be back on it and going as fast as we can.'
Indeed so much did Tom know, and so cunning was his questioning, that Frodo found himself telling him more about Bilbo and his own hopes and fears than he had told before even to Gandalf.
He was perhaps a trifle annoyed with Tom for seeming to make so light of what even Gandalf thought so perilously important.
Frodo was neither very fat nor very timid; indeed, though he did not know it, Bilbo (and Gandalf) had thought him the best hobbit in the Shire.
Gandalf would admit that there had been nothing else he could do.
And I'm mortal afraid of what Gandalf will say, if harm comes of it.
Frodo turned and looked at him thoughtfully, wondering about Gandalf's second postscript.
'Why didn't you tell me that you were Gandalf's friend at once?'
'They are – at first sight at any rate,' laughed Pippin with sudden relief after reading Gandalf's letter.
'How do we know you are the Strider that Gandalf speaks about?'
But how did you know that they were in Gandalf's letter, if you have never seen it?'
The tidings had gone far and wide that Gandalf was missing and the horsemen had been seen.
'Do you think the Black Riders have anything to do with it – with Gandalf's absence, I mean?'
Gandalf is greater than you Shire-folk know – as a rule you can only see his jokes and toys.
Merry was still reading and pondering Gandalf's letter when Strider and Nob returned.
If Gandalf was anywhere about, there was no sign of him.
'It might be a sign left by Gandalf, though one cannot be sure.
'I wonder if old Gandalf has been here,' he said to Pippin.
'I was very anxious to find some sign of Gandalf; but it was a mistake for three of us to go up and stand there so long.
'I know only the little that Gandalf has told me,' said Frodo slowly.
He did not forget the Barrow, nor the message of Gandalf; but something seemed to be compelling him to disregard all warnings, and he longed to yield.
Your Frodo is made of sterner stuff than I had guessed, though Gandalf hinted that it might prove so.
If Gandalf ever came here, then he must have been forced to ride away, and he will not return.
These must be the very three that were caught by Gandalf, quarrelling over the right way to cook thirteen dwarves and one hobbit.'
They were probably following the very track that Gandalf, Bilbo, and the dwarves had used many years before.
They said that the Nine were abroad, and that you were astray bearing a great burden without guidance, for Gandalf had not returned.
While he was thinking of all these things and trying in vain to bring his memory down to his arriving in Rivendell, there was a long silence, broken only by the soft puffs of Gandalf's pipe, as he blew white smoke-rings out of the window.
'You have talked long in your sleep, Frodo,' said Gandalf gently, 'and it has not been hard for me to read your mind and memory.
'I was delayed,' said Gandalf, `and that nearly proved our ruin.
'You will soon hear all you wish to know,' said Gandalf.
`You don't know much even about them, if you think old Barliman is stupid,' said Gandalf.
'You have talked and reckoned more than is good for you,' said Gandalf.
'Yes, fortune or fate have helped you,' said Gandalf, `not to mention courage.
Gandalf moved his chair to the bedside, and took a good look at Frodo.
Gandalf looked quickly at Frodo, but he had shut his eyes.
`Well, there are many reasons why they should,' said Gandalf, smiling.
Gandalf asked me to come and see if you were ready to come down, and I thought he was joking.'
`Gandalf has been saying many cheerful things like that,' said Pippin.
`As soon as Gandalf reported that you were recovered, the preparations began.'
Elrond, as was his custom, sat in a great chair at the end of the long table upon the dais; and next to him on the one side sat Glorfindel, on the other side sat Gandalf.
Frodo looked at them in wonder, for he had never before seen Elrond, of whom so many tales spoke; and as they sat upon his right hand and his left, Glorfindel, and even Gandalf, whom he thought he knew so well, were revealed as lords of dignity and power.
Gandalf was shorter in stature than the other two; but his long white hair, his sweeping silver beard, and his broad shoulders, made him look like some wise king of ancient legend.
But perhaps I should not inquire too closely, since Elrond and Gandalf do not seem disposed to talk of this?'
It is a pity that Gandalf did not find out more sooner.
I have thought several times of going back to Hobbiton for it; but I am getting old, and they would not let me: Gandalf and Elrond, I mean.
`You can trot off and tell Gandalf that he has gone to bed.
On a seat cut in the stone beside a turn in the path they came upon Gandalf and Bilbo deep in talk.
`That is the warning bell for the Council of Elrond,' cried Gandalf.
Gandalf led them to the porch where Frodo had found his friends the evening before.
`Here,' said Elrond, turning to Gandalf, `is Boromir, a man from the South.
I still want to know a good deal, especially about Gandalf.'
But these things it is the part of Gandalf to make clear; and I call upon him last, for it is the place of honour, and in all this matter he has been the chief.'
`Some, Galdor,' said Gandalf, `would think the tidings of Glóin, and the pursuit of Frodo, proof enough that the halfling's trove is a thing of great worth to the Enemy.
Gandalf fell silent, gazing eastward from the porch to the far peaks of the Misty Mountains, at whose great roots the peril of the world had so long lain hidden.
`From the first my heart misgave me, against all reason that I knew,' said Gandalf, `and I desired to know how this thing came to Gollum, and how long he had possessed it.
And since it seemed fit that Isildur's heir should labour to repair Isildur's fault, I went with Gandalf on the long and hopeless search.'
Then Gandalf told how they had explored the whole length of Wilderland, down even to the Mountains of Shadow and the fences of Mordor.
`But in that time also he made this scroll,' said Gandalf; `and that is not remembered in Gondor, it would seem.
For my part I hope never to look upon him again; but Gandalf came and endured long speech with him.'
`Never before has any voice dared to utter the words of that tongue in Imladris, Gandalf the Grey,' said Elrond, as the shadow passed and the company breathed once more.
`And let us hope that none will ever speak it here again,' answered Gandalf.
We guarded this creature day and night, at Gandalf's bidding, much though we wearied of the task.
But Gandalf bade us hope still for his cure, and we had not the heart to keep him ever in dungeons under the earth, where he would fall back into his old black thoughts.'
Tell them to bring news of anything that bears on this matter to Saruman and Gandalf.
` "So you have come, Gandalf," he said to me gravely; but in his eyes there seemed to be a white light, as if a cold laughter was in his heart.
It has seldom been heard of that Gandalf the Grey sought for aid, one so cunning and so wise, wandering about the lands, and concerning himself in every business, whether it belongs to him or not."
And here you will stay, Gandalf the Grey, and rest from journeys.
Or until it is found in your despite, and the Ruler has time to turn to lighter matters: to devise, say, a fitting reward for the hindrance and insolence of Gandalf the Grey."
`Then it was late in coming,' said Gandalf, 'as you will see.
Gandalf the Grey caught like a fly in a spider's treacherous web!
But such a thing has not happened before, that Gandalf broke tryst and did not come when he promised.
`But Gandalf has revealed to us that we cannot destroy it by any craft that we here possess,' said Elrond.
said Gandalf, looking in through the window, which was near the ground.
So great was Frodo's delight at this announcement that Gandalf left the window-sill, where he had been sitting, and took off his hat and bowed.
'Eight out of the Nine are accounted for at least,' said Gandalf.
With you and your faithful servant, Gandalf will go; for this shall be his great task, and maybe the end of his labours.
Aragorn and Gandalf walked together or sat speaking of their road and the perils they would meet; and they pondered the storied and figured maps and books of lore that were in the house of Elrond.
Gandalf bore his staff, but girt at his side was the elven-sword Glamdring, the mate of Orcrist that lay now upon the breast of Thorin under the Lonely Mountain.
Their farewells had been said in the great hall by the fire, and they were only waiting now for Gandalf, who had not yet come out of the house.
At that moment Elrond came out with Gandalf, and he called the Company to him.
Gandalf walked in front, and with him went Aragorn, who knew this land even in the dark.
Gandalf stood at Frodo's side and looked out under his hand.
`It is for the Dimrill Dale that we are making,' said Gandalf.
`May you have joy of the sight, my good dwarf l' said Gandalf.
'To the end of the journey – in the end,' said Gandalf.
`And in that case so is the Redhorn Gate,' said Gandalf; `and how we can get over that without being seen, I cannot imagine.
Frodo overheard these words, and understood that Gandalf and Aragorn were continuing some debate that had begun long before.
'I think no good of our course from beginning to end, as you know well, Gandalf,' answered Aragorn.
In the late afternoon, while the others were finishing their breakfast, Gandalf and Aragorn went aside together and stood looking at Caradhras.
When they returned to the Company Gandalf spoke, and then he knew that it had been decided to face the weather and the high pass.
`From signs that we have seen lately,' said Gandalf, 'I fear that the Redhorn Gate may be watched; and also I have doubts of the weather that is coming up behind.
The dark bent shapes of Gandalf and Aragorn only a pace or two ahead could hardly be seen.
`It matters little who is the enemy, if we cannot beat off his attack; said Gandalf.
`This will be the death of the halflings, Gandalf,' said Boromir.
`Give them this,' said Gandalf, searching in his pack and drawing out a leathern flask.
'I have written _Gandalf is here_ in signs that all can read from Rivendell to the mouths of Anduin.'
`If Gandalf would go before us with a bright flame, he might melt a path for you,' said Legolas.
`If Elves could fly over mountains, they might fetch the Sun to save us,' answered Gandalf.
Behind in the narrow but now well-trodden track came Gandalf, leading Bill with Gimli perched among the baggage.
Gandalf spared them one more mouthful each of the miruvor of Rivendell.
'We still have our journey and our errand before us,' answered Gandalf.
`You are right, Frodo,' said Gandalf: `to go back is to admit defeat and face worse defeat to come.
'The road that I speak of leads to the Mines of Moria,' said Gandalf.
`You speak of what you do not know, when you liken Moria to the stronghold of Sauron,' answered Gandalf.
It is not of the Ring, nor of us others that I am thinking now, but of you, Gandalf.
`I do not wish to go,' he said; `but neither do I wish to refuse the advice of Gandalf.
Gandalf will get votes easier in the light of the morning than in this cold gloom.
`There was a door south-west of Caradhras, some fifteen miles as the crow flies, and maybe twenty as the wolf runs,' answered Gandalf grimly.
Whatever may be in store for old Gandalf, I'll wager it isn't a wolf's belly.'
Gandalf and Aragorn strode forward, but the hill was deserted; the hunting packs had fled.
In the wavering firelight Gandalf seemed suddenly to grow: he rose up, a great menacing shape like the monument of some ancient king of stone set upon a hill.
`We must reach the doors before sunset,' said Gandalf, 'or I fear we shall not reach them at all.
`I do not know which to hope,' said Boromir grimly: `that Gandalf will find what he seeks, or that coming to the cliff we shall find the gates lost for ever.
But either Gandalf was astray, or else the land had changed in recent years; for he did not strike the stream where he looked to find it, only a few miles southwards from their start.
They found the stone steps without difficulty, and Gimli sprang swiftly up them, followed by Gandalf and Frodo.
`There are the Walls of Moria,' said Gandalf, pointing across the water.
`But in any case we cannot take the poor beast into the Mines,' said Gandalf.
They hurried forward, for they had still a mile or two to go before they could reach the point on the far shore that Gandalf was making for; and then he had still to find the doors.
Gandalf now pressed on at a great pace, and the others followed as quickly as they could.
'I have heard both,' said Gandalf; 'and I will not give judgement now.
'But you can't leave poor old Bill behind in this forsaken place, Mr. Gandalf! '
'But this Door was not made to be a secret known only to Dwarves,' said Gandalf, coming suddenly to life and turning round.
At the top, as high as Gandalf could reach, was an arch of interlacing letters in an Elvish character.
`The words are in the elven-tongue of the West of Middle-earth in the Elder Days,' answered Gandalf.
The others looked dismayed; only Aragorn, who knew Gandalf well, remained silent and unmoved.
`Knock on the doors with your head, Peregrin Took,' said Gandalf.
Again Gandalf approached the wall, and lifting up his arms he spoke in tones of command and rising wrath.
Sam and Frodo were only a few steps up, and Gandalf had just begun to climb, when the groping tentacles writhed across the narrow shore and fingered the cliff-wall and the doors.
They heard Gandalf go back down the steps and thrust his staff against the doors.
'I do not know,' answered Gandalf, 'but the arms were all guided by one purpose.
After they had eaten, Gandalf gave them each a third sip of the miruvor of Rivendell.
Often the wizard consulted him at points where the choice of way was doubtful; but it was always Gandalf who had the final word.
To Gandalf the far-off memories of a journey long before were now of little help, but even in the gloom and despite all windings of the road he knew whither he wished to go, and he did not falter, as long as there was a path that led towards his goal.
There was a pause longer than usual, and Gandalf and Gimli were whispering together; the others were crowded behind, waiting anxiously.
One sign of change that he soon had noticed was that he could see more in the dark than any of his companions, save perhaps Gandalf.
They had been going for several hours with only brief halts, when Gandalf came to his first serious check.
cried Gandalf as Merry and Pippin pushed forward, glad to find a place where they could rest with at least more feeling of shelter than in the open passage.
He wished he could cover the hole, if only with a blanket, but he dared not move or go near it, even though Gandalf seemed to be asleep.
`That is all that I shall venture on for the present,' said Gandalf.
After they had breakfasted Gandalf decided to go on again at once.
Gandalf lifted it carefully, but the leaves crackled and broke as he laid it on the slab.
`Well, I can read no more for a long way,' said Gandalf, 'except the word _gold_, and _Durin's Axe_ and something _helm_.
`I fear he had ill tidings to record in a fair hand,' said Gandalf.