"Good morning, Master Gandalf," Bilbo returned, raising his pipe in greeting.
Once Gandalf was on his way with a promise to return for dinner, Bilbo calmly stood up and walked back into his home, shut the door and locked it, and then proceeded to have a minor break down.
And to have to look into the face of his oldest and dearest friend and lie… Bilbo wasn't sure how he was going to face the rest of his (dead) companions if he couldn't even face Gandalf for five minutes.
"You seem confused, Master Gandalf," he commented, leaning back against the chair he had been dragged to after being at the bottom of a Dwarven pancake.
Simply the ponderings of an old man," Gandalf dismissed just as he expected him to.
He could feel Gandalf staring at him with his ancient eyes, and knew that there would be a comment to soon follow.
Gandalf slowly rose to his feet and gave the others a knowing look.
Every second seemed to turn into an hour as Gandalf stood and headed to the front door with the Dwarves following.
"—grocer than a burglar," finished the king, glancing to his left to raise a brow at Gandalf.
I thought you might like to hear them," Gandalf replied slowly.
Gandalf stared down at him; his gray eyes gleaming from beneath his heavy brows.
"I do not have the skills to find it, but there are others in Middle Earth who can," he heard Gandalf comment as he leaned over the table.
He looked up at the owner of the hand, and found Gandalf staring down at him with pursed lips.
Gandalf smiled while the Dwarves murmured amongst each other and exchanged looks.
As Balin went about pulling out the contract, Bilbo found himself under the intense gaze of Gandalf.
The lives of those he held were too important for him to risk even to Gandalf.
—it is Gandalf who tells him of the fates of Balin, Óin and Ori.
He noticed Gandalf had been watching him with that same look he used to (and eventually would again) give Meriadoc Brandybuck and Peregrin Took whenever they got too close to the fireworks.
That was fine because it gave him a chance to focus on another problem: Gandalf.
He had enough that he had to deal with, and having Gandalf against him did not help.
Gandalf stared at him silently for a moment before slowly nodding.
Gandalf's eyes widened as he took in the meaning of his words.
Gandalf paused and stared at the skeletal remains of the shack with furrowed brows.
We would be most welcome by Lord Elrond—" Gandalf was trying to explain with obvious impatience, and mounting anger.
Gandalf's lips became pinched and he tugged his hat down further over his eyes.
"I have seen no such skills in battle," he interrupted, cutting the king off much in the same manner he had done earlier to Gandalf.
"And, Gandalf, you should not be wandering about alone considering we've been hearing wargs howling for the past few nights.
So far everything had stayed true to his expectations—they had found the troll cave, discovered the swords, buried the chest of treasure, and he even got Sting from Gandalf.
Those roles were meant to be filled by people like Thorin and Gandalf and Frodo.
Gandalf demanded of the king, and the two soon erupted into an argument.
Another was ambushed by the others; Thorin neatly beheading the Orc before taking out the Warg with the aid of Gandalf, Balin and Glóin.
He stood scowling next to Gandalf as the wizard spoke to a very familiar Elf.
Gandalf was clearly trying to convince the king to head to Rivendell for rest and aid in reading the map.
Eventually he gave a grudging nod that won a loud sigh from Gandalf, and a small smirk from the Elf.
When dinner ended, Bilbo watched Thorin leave with Elrond, Gandalf, and Balin while the rest of the Company returned to their rooms.
He also knew that soon the White Council would gather to question Gandalf about their Company, and Saruman—the bloody traitor—would attempt to stop them.
He could only hope that Gandalf was tricky enough to stall for time as they made their escape.
If Gandalf did not confront the Necromancer, then who would stop him?
Bilbo did not know what tricks Gandalf had to use this time around in order to distract the White Council, but he was grateful the wizard was so canny.
The Dwarf really had nothing on Gandalf when the wizard was angry.
"A good question, Master Baggins," Gandalf said, speaking up for the first time.
"That someone would pay a price for his head," Gandalf answered for the king.
Below them Gandalf, Thorin, Dwalin and Dori took their places in the bushes around the camp.
Gandalf, Thorin, Dwalin and Dori finally revealed themselves and attacked the nearest Orc to them.
Gandalf led them through the dark forest while the others helped the wounded as they begun the task of walking down the mountain.
Dwalin was polishing his axe while Gandalf smoked his pipe and seemed to study the night sky above.
He stayed awake long enough to watch Dori and Gandalf finally fall asleep, and for Dwalin to switch with Thorin.
Thorin led them with Gandalf by his side while Fíli, Nori, and Bofur were ordered to walk in the middle as they were still healing.
"When Bilbo can't go any further," Gandalf answered, lighting up his pipe.
Later, after dinner was finished and the few bedrolls set out, Bilbo was surprised to find himself in the company of Gandalf.
It was partly his own fault since he had been preoccupied with keeping track of events and Dwarfs, but he also had a feeling that Gandalf had been avoiding him.
"Yes, I've noticed your affection and protective nature over the others," admitted Gandalf.
He thought his explanation would satisfy Gandalf, but all it did was make his face fall and his eyes grow dark.
Gandalf was his oldest and dearest friend even if the wizard did not know him as well yet.
Gandalf stared at him for a long while with his ancient eyes.
Eventually Gandalf released a long and deep sigh that made his shoulders slump.
He did not know what Gandalf thought of his words, but the wizard smiled at him like he had an idea of what he meant.
It was there that Gandalf finally Mentioned Beorn and suggested that they stop there to ask for supplies and rest.
I have not met the Man myself, but I am told he can speak the language of beasts," replied Gandalf.
Maybe less if we are not followed by Orcs and Wargs," Gandalf grumbled, casting a glare to the mountains behind them.
He had thought it was a Hobbit custom at first, but Gandalf had assured him it was merely a Bilbo one.
The last time around Gandalf had dragged him along first while bidding the rest to wait before entering.
It might overwhelm him if we all come trotting in at once," Gandalf mused, rubbing his staff in thought.
A practical idea, Master Baggins," Gandalf agreed, his gray eyes lighting up.
They skirted around until they finally came to a tall and broad wooden gate that Gandalf boldly pushed open.
"They have gone to tell him of our arrival," commented Gandalf, looking amused.
Beorn was taller than Gandalf, as thickly muscled as Dwalin, and sported more hair than Glóin.
Gandalf moved forward first and tipped his hat politely to the giant.
He heard Gandalf groan beside him, and imagined that his father was probably rolling in his grave at his terrible manners.
He looked over the rest of the Company before glancing back to Gandalf.
The Dwarves begun to mutter to each other and Gandalf frowned.
He listened as the Dwarfs questioned why and grumbled at the answer they received, and then ignored them as Gandalf began to lecture them all.
"There is one more thing you should all know," added Gandalf, clearing this throat.
Gandalf had left them the last time around as well, but he had thought it had been because of the Necromancer.
I wish I could ask him but it would likely make him suspicious, he thought as he listened to Gandalf reassure the others that he would return eventually.
Beorn assured me that they know their way home," Gandalf promised as he helped them unload their packs.
"This is where I leave you all now," announced Gandalf as he hoisted himself onto his horse.
He recognized it as the one Gandalf had given Thorin in the beginning of their journey.
Since Gandalf was still gone he turned his attention to the next best healer around: Óin.
Unsurprisingly, it was Gandalf who reached him first with the others trailing behind him.
Clearly an error on my part," Gandalf agreed with a nod as the others joined them.
Bilbo stepped back and allowed the others to follow after the Dwarf before moving to Gandalf's side.
The first time around, Gandalf had left them to face off against the Necromancer.
He did not know what Gandalf had gone off to take care of this time, but whatever it was, it clearly had nothing to do with the Necromancer.
For all his innocent and foolish persona, Gandalf was as sharp as a blade and rarely missed even the smallest detail.
"Ahh, well, I suppose that makes sense," admitted Gandalf, rubbing his fingers against the wood of his staff.
"Do not worry yourself over Mirkwood," continued Gandalf, failing to notice his irritation.
Gandalf gave him a kind smile and patted his shoulder again.
To his relief, Gandalf soon lit up the top of his staff and casted a white light over them all.
Bombur was crying silently to himself as Gandalf patted him on the back.
Bilbo ignored the frowns and scowls, and simply gave Gandalf a final nod before he descended into the city for the (second) first time his life.
the Hobbit wondered, blinking around before realizing that the entire Company and Gandalf were there.
Above them, he could see Gandalf and Kíli running up a flight of stairs; obviously searching for a safe spot for the Dwarf to fire his arrows.
As he drew closer, he looked up to where Gandalf and Kíli had finally come to an open ledge that stood in perfect range of the dragon.
"He's right," agreed Balin, joining in on the conversation with Óin and Gandalf.
Balin and Gandalf had wandered off to make plans to return to Lake-town at dawn while Fíli had rejoined the others in their celebration.
"Gandalf says he put some sort of spell on it," explained Dwalin, crossing his arms over his broad chest.
Balin and Gandalf had still not returned but he was not worried.
Everyone was working—even Gandalf, to his surprise—and no one idled around.
—for a moment he thinks Thorin will ignore Gandalf and simply drop him.
Behind him trailed Balin, Gandalf, and Óin; all of them frowning and looking far too serious for Bilbo's comfort.
There he found Gandalf and Balin arguing with a familiar Elvenking while Óin stood off to the side watching.
Gandalf stood between the two and looked close to smacking them both with his staff.
Balin relaxed as Gandalf groaned and Thranduil pulled his lips back in the slightest hint of a snarl.
thundered Gandalf, the air crackling around him with tightly controlled power.
Stop riling him up," advised Gandalf, giving the king a stink eye.
"Like your grandfather," finished Gandalf, his gray eyes as hard and unflinching as stone.
"You won't be speaking for the next few years," translated Gandalf because he secretly enjoyed causing trouble.
At his side, Gandalf watched as well with hard, gray eyes; reading something into the exile of the Men that he could only guess at.
He is ignoring us all and has holed himself up in one of the rooms," Gandalf replied, scowling at the fading backs of Bard and his Men.
Since Dáin's announcement of Azog, Thorin had called a meeting between himself, Dáin, Balin, and Gandalf.
The loud noise startled Bilbo into jumping to his feet in alarm, only to find Gandalf storming out with a string of curses.
They failed to notice the Hobbit in the corner as they walked off after Gandalf; whispering to each other and making dramatic hand gestures.
My ears hurt from listening to Gandalf yell," the Dwarf revealed, glancing down to where their bodies touched before looking back to Bilbo's face.
Gandalf and Thorin were nowhere to be seen and he was grateful for that.
When Gandalf did finally appear, his face was pinched and his nostrils flared with every breath he took.
"Oh good, you didn't kill each other while I was gone," Gandalf said in greeting, waltzing over to the group.
"Now, now, I'm sure it's not that horrible," Gandalf commented as he stepped into the tent.
"Stop right there, Bilbo Baggins, I don't want to hear another word," Gandalf interrupted, his voice turning steely.
Gandalf sighed, and ran his large hand through the Hobbit's curls.
Gandalf sighed again, and simply kept running his hand through his hair in a soothing gesture.
Through it all Gandalf stayed by his side as he cried out his heart again for the king that he lost once more.
Inside he found Thranduil standing over a table with Gandalf and—surprisingly—Bard.
Master Gandalf here has just explained what you did earlier today…"
"That is what I was wondering as well," commented Gandalf, raising his bushy brows at Thranduil.
Bard frowned and pulled his shoulders back while Gandalf scowled and looked ready to smack the king with his staff.
Beside him, Gandalf's dark eyes seemed even older in the harsh lines of his face.
Occasionally Gandalf or Bard would find him and would attempt to talk him into resting.
"We were all worried about you after Gandalf took you away.
Ask Gandalf or Bard about it later," he replied, not wanting to speak of the events again.
"Gandalf asked me to keep you behind so you would be safe," the Elf said as he slowly looked the burglar over, "but I do not believe that is possible for anyone."
I will fight in this battle whether Gandalf wants me to or not," he replied, raising his chin stubbornly.
Gandalf had played mediator between the two sects and had managed to convince Dáin and Thorin to keep their Dwarves stationed before Erebor to meet the Orcs and Goblins head on.
Sometimes he even caught a glimpse of it in Gandalf but it was fleeting and rare.
Gandalf said you would be with that damn leaf-eater in the camp!"
"Gandalf should have checked with me first before he decided what I would do," he retorted sharply, driving Sting into a nearby Goblin that was attempting to cut Glóin's leg off.
Perhaps all the praise Gandalf had given the Dwarf lord was deserved after all.
He recalled the many tales he read in Rivendell and even the stories that Gandalf used to share with him.
He still wasn't sure how that happened but he blamed Gandalf and his fast talking.
That was why he ended up sitting at a round table with Gandalf, Thranduil, Bard, Balin and Dáin.
Gandalf smiled the same smile that he always wore right before he lit up his fireworks.
Beorn thought to ask Gandalf but the wizard did not seem aware of his Hobbit companion's state.
He wrote a letter to Gandalf explaining his second chance at life, and thanking him for being his good friend for so many years.
After he finished his letter to Gandalf, Bilbo wrote a letter to each of the Dwarves that he had come to care for so much.
As with Gandalf's letter, he explained his second chance and what really happened the first time he joined them on their quest.
"Now tell us why before we drag you off to Gandalf—"
He then told them of Frodo and how he gave the ring to his nephew only to have Gandalf at last discover that it was the One Ring.
Radagast the Brown—he's a wizard like Gandalf—he was supposed to warn us about an evil rising in Dol Guldur, but he never showed up!"
"Gandalf later went to investigate Dol Guldur and defeated him the first time, but this time he did not give any indication that anything of that nature happened.
Without them, we have only the Company and perhaps Gandalf to help us face Mordor," Balin pointed out, ever the voice of reason.
"I heard from Gandalf that Bilbo took his pet, new mistress, and the scary Elf along with him."
I'm hoping Gandalf will talk some sense into them if they try.
It was one of the reasons why he got along so great with Gandalf.
He tried his best to ignore the dark fortress as he went about his tasks, but it was very hard as he recalled the stories he heard from Gandalf, and his own haunting dream of Sauron.
Bilbo thought he could live to be Gandalf's age and he would still feel like a gutted fish every time a friend passed away.
"I have a theory but I won't know for sure till Gandalf gets here."
the Dwarf yelled as he came stomping into the camp with his soldiers and Gandalf.
Gandalf didn't look like he agreed with that idea, but didn't protest as the king marched off yelling orders.
Gandalf made a sound in his throat that had several nearby Dwarves backing away.
Gandalf flashed him a reassuring smile that did nothing to reassure him.
But now, hours later, Olórin—or Gandalf as he went by here because he foolishly thought that having a secret identify would make him seem mysterious—finally stood before him.
We also used Gandalf to intimidate them into moving as quickly as possible.
Gandalf says there may be a way to save me, but I'm not sure if it will work," he explained.
Behind Radagast, Gandalf and Lord Elrond stood watching the proceedings with vastly different expressions.
Gandalf looked like a puffed up hen; angry and protective on behalf of his chick.
"He didn't want to lose the advantage he has now with you alive," Gandalf explained calmly.
"We should probably begin soon," Gandalf said, eyeing the two like he didn't know if he wanted to encourage the discussion or avoid it.
"Way to make me feel like a meal, Gandalf," Bilbo muttered as he stood up.
Gandalf said that if Sauron has been leeching off of you all this time, then his darker energies must have been influencing you to some degree," the king explained, settling his hand on the back of Bilbo's neck.
Kíli frowned, and then, quick as Gandalf would light his staff, his expression became guarded.
This book was eventually found by Gandalf the Grey and the Fellowship of the Ring, and handed to Gimli the Dwarf, who brought it back to Erebor.
Gandalf was still standing by the fireplace, looking absurdly huge amongst all of Bilbo's things.
"You certainly haven't been coming to chat with me or Radagast then, my dear boy," Gandalf said, casually stealing some of Bilbo's fine pipe-weed and packing his pipe.
"I don't spend a great deal of time in one place, as a rule, and so I never stay long in lands where a Dwarf's spirit might linger," Gandalf said, stretching out his legs and lighting his pipe.
"All of us who were once servants of the greater powers still have some of our gifts," Gandalf said, raising a bushy eyebrow.
"I was not aware you were," Thorin snapped back, and Gandalf chuckled.
Gandalf blew out another smoke ring, and then fixed Thorin with his piercing blue stare.
"Well, well," Gandalf said, his eyes narrowing and his mouth gnawing thoughtfully on his pipe-stem.
Much of the talk came from Gandalf (who was either ignoring the Company or unaware of their presence) and Lord Elrond (the smug, self-satisfied Elven git).
Gandalf hummed in thought and his eyes narrowed under his bushy brows.
The noise was becoming deafening, and Thorin turned to see Gandalf's eyes lingering on him.
Thorin caught sight of Bilbo's face as Gandalf stepped forward and pledged himself to the young Hobbit's protection.
Gandalf was the one who chose Bilbo Baggins, or have you forgotten?"
It was a good thing Gimli had brought his father's flint, as Gandalf disappeared shortly after they had made camp.
"My father said Gandalf comes and goes as he will," Gimli said, and smiled at the little Hobbit as the tinder caught.
It seems that between you and Legolas and Gandalf, I am a mere child."
Gandalf emerged, his face drawn into lines of anger and determination.
"We do not aim for Minas Tirith, but for Mordor," Gandalf said, and he turned to lead them on.
Gandalf peered through the swirling flakes, and then bent his head.
"Stand back," Gandalf said, and a spark of green and blue flame rose from his staff and the wood hissed and spat and sputtered.
"Well, if any are watching, I have now written Gandalf is here in signs that all can read from here to Rivendell," he said, knocking the snow from his hat and pressing his back against the cliff that was their shelter.
"If Gandalf could use his staff, he could melt a path for you!"
"And if Elves could fly, they might fetch the sun to save us," Gandalf growled.
Gandalf's chant rose to a carrying bellow, and then he broke off with a gasp as a bolt of lightning smashed into the mountain's peak.
"You cannot take the Ring to Minas Tirith," Thorin said, and turned to see Gandalf's eyes, deep and shadowed, watching him intently.
Thorin held Gandalf's steady blue gaze and tried to keep the plea from his voice.
As they began the arduous task of wading back down the paths they had struggled so hard to scale, Gandalf glanced back at Thorin again.
"It isn't cost that drives us, Aragorn," Gandalf said back, his old voice low and rusty.
"Indeed," Gandalf said, and a brief flash of pain passed over his face.
Gandalf was either a consummate actor or he was not concentrating enough to see Thorin at that moment.
