Granger repeated, frowning as she took out her wand and began to Vanish the water and dry the carpets as diligently as a house-elf.
Granger tucked away her wand and squeezed herself next to Weasley.
He pretended not to let her sit down beside him and they wrestled and wriggled and pushed at each other before Weasley put her arm around Granger's shoulders and kissed her.
If you didn't have enough manpower to occupy all three, it was wiser to just give up and sit somewhere else, or you'd be forced to endure Weasley and Granger sharing an armchair, laughing and bickering and kissing and fighting, and doing all those things very loudly.
"Famous last words," Ernie grumbled but looked somewhat appeased now that Granger had assured him he wouldn't die tonight.
It would probably amuse Granger to see Draco in one of those ugly, uncomfortable things.
No one who would snicker at Granger and glare at Potter, once Potter graced them with his presence.
No one except Potter, Granger and Weasley, of course, but for some incomprehensible reason they hadn't shared that piece of information with anyone.
Draco sneaked a peek at Granger and Weasley, laughing and kissing on the armchair beside him.
Granger sprang to her feet and scanned the cheerful faces suspiciously.
He blinked, opened his mouth but then quickly redirected his attention back to Granger.
"He's absolutely serious," said Longbottom, with an unsubtle wink in Granger's direction.
Draco couldn't see Granger's face, but he suspected she was smiling.
"Hermione," Potter said, imitating her tone, "you're looking at the path to inter-house unity."
He and Granger had asked McGonagall for permission, claiming it was just the thing that was needed to help them feel like one house rather than four different houses stuck together by circumstances.
On the other hand, if that happened, McGonagall's fury would be directed at Potter and Granger, and that was something Draco could look forward to.
"It's barely even raining now," Goyle said from the armchair Weasley and Granger had abandoned.
Granger said in a quiet tone as though she didn't want to upset him with her knowledge.
Granger was apparently fascinated with her nails and was studying them with careful interest.
Good thing you did; I think Granger was getting ready to slap you again."
"But you know everything there is to know about Potions, and Granger says you should have realised it could have ill effects in large —"
If Granger had a theory, it would be stupid to ignore it.
Granger probably didn't have any useful theories and Potter was just having him on.
Draco could imagine it all so very clearly: Granger had a theory.
And Potter was dared to kiss him and prove Granger right.
Well, Granger and Weasley, obviously, but she didn't drink at all and she kept Transfiguring Weasley's Firewhiskey to water."
And I told them I had been in the Room of Requirement with you and Potter and Granger and Weasley and .
And then Granger showed up and told everyone there had been a horrible accident and Crabbe d-died in that room and they should be more considerate in the future and stop asking questions about that night.
He was drowsing in a chair when Granger strode into the hospital.
Granger looked back expectantly, her bushy hair wild around her face.
They were, indeed, Granger's class notes from last week, including the classes Draco had missed and three essays due on Monday and Tuesday.
In his desperate attempt to keep his mind busy, he memorised everything that was written on Granger's plastic notes.
He couldn’t decide if Granger's words made him feel better or worse.
Potter, Granger and Weasley were often last to leave the Great Hall, always lingering after everyone else, and Draco hoped they hadn't decided to change their ways today.
Weasley and Granger whispered furiously to each other a couple benches away from the back of the room where Draco had found Goyle and sat down.
Miss Granger, who brings you special notes so you can study?
He considered asking Granger where Potter spent his free periods, but as he trailed behind everyone on his way to the History of Magic classroom, he saw a flash of orange out of the corner of his eye.
They all had a good laugh when Daphne and Finnigan charmed the Tower's centaur and he refused to grant Granger passage before she answered his question ("How are you today?")
The thought would have troubled Draco, but neither Granger nor Weasley had hexed him or glared in his general direction, so he hoped that meant they weren't planning his demise for daring to put his hands (and mouth) on Harry Potter.
Draco needed to speak with him, but he wasn't sure how Granger and Weasley would react if he just came up to them and requested to speak to Potter alone.
Perhaps Granger and Weasley convinced Potter he had made a terrible mistake and should stay away from Draco in the future.
"Hermione said the other day that you seemed to have Conjured your own personal little Dementor.
Potter worked on a desk nearer the front, Weasel (Weasley) and Granger flanking him.
He knew Potter never looked back at him, always too busy with Granger and Weasley, or the atrociously large group of simpering fans.
If it wasn’t Hermione and Ron, or maybe Ginny, or Neville, it was some other Eighth year who wanted to talk to him about some work, or duelling club members or Quidditch players asking for his advice, or girls forever trying to dose him on love potions.
At the corner of his eye, he saw Hermione, and he had a sudden airy feeling as he was lifted off the ground.
Berriky was saying something, but Harry focused on Hermione and Ron as they floated him out of the classroom.
Hermione gently shook her head, and Harry sensed doors opening before they entered into the white of the Infirmary.
Somewhat dazed, he missed the weightlessness when Hermione lowered him onto a white bed.
Madam Pomfrey shook her head, giving Hermione and Ron a level look.
Granger and Mr. Weasley, ensure that Mr. Potter gets his rest.”
Madam Pomfrey took her leave as Hermione and Ron settled down on the chairs by the bed.
It looked like Ron almost believed him, but Hermione definitely did not.
Hermione stiffened, but in the end, they both stayed by his side.
They talked about common things, sometimes just Hermione and Ron while Harry dozed, and sometimes the three of them.
Hermione was still worried, and she stayed by his side during dinner, which consisted of him shifting food around his plate as he accepted the sympathy and hope you’re okay’s and told Ron that he was going to be a great Auror if he could defeat the ‘great Harry Potter’.
Back at the common room, Ron and Hermione exchanged glances, and Hermione didn’t tell them to get out their homework.
Harry blinked and turned to Ron, but Ron was nodding at Hermione’s words.
He had worried his friends to the point that Ron didn’t even make a joke about Hermione agreeing to not do work.
“I’ll be fine,” Harry protested, embarrassed as Hermione helped him take off his shoes and outer robes, transfigured the rest of his clothes into pyjamas, and sent a cleaning spell to his teeth.
Obediently, Harry climbed into bed and lay still as Hermione and Ron tucked him in.
“Go to sleep, Harry.” Hermione smoothed his hair, drawing his eyelids down.
He must have been tired after all because he fell asleep immediately...with the image of Hermione and Ron standing by his bed, as though they were his parents.
Hermione gave Harry a sly grin and looped her arm with Ron’s.
Apparently, Granger and Weasley had established a routine of putting Potter to bed every night.
Granger and Weasley hadn’t visited; Potter himself had only been in the room briefly late in the night.
Ron and Hermione were in the Eighth Year common room at one of the tables near the left fireplace.
Hermione gave him a pleased look as he plopped down next to Ron, who held a quill in one hand and a large cookie in the other.
Ron gave him a muffled greeting and quickly ducked his head under Hermione’s look.
He knew Hermione would be satisfied if he completed it before last-minute-Sunday-night.
A small part of him wished Hermione and Ron still accompanied him to bed.
“Night, mate,” Ron quickly said, and he and Hermione disappeared up the stairs.
In the back of his mind, Harry winced, belatedly realising that he'd just cut into Hermione’s talk, which he hadn’t been paying attention to.
However, Hermione turned to him with questioning eyes, no trace of anger or irritation on her face.
Harry waited with barely concealed impatience for Hermione and Ron to finish eating.
“Harry, what’s gotten in to you?” Hermione asked across the table.
Hermione rolled her eyes at Ron but placed a fond hand on his arm regardless.
“If it gets bad, we can take you to the Infirmary,” Hermione added, frowning.
Hermione shot him a smile and Ron mumbled an absent “Good night.”
Hermione was on his other side, and she gave Ron an exasperated look before returning to scanning her potions text.
Even Hermione noticed Malfoy’s quick finish, because she was frowning more than ever.
Harry cast a Tempus—and realised that Hermione and Ron would be waiting for him to come to breakfast.
Hermione and Ron are waiting for me—” Harry cut himself off.
More than that though, he had already told Hermione and Ron he’d meet them in the Great Hall.
However, he always left a bit early, to go to his actual friends Granger and Weasley, and it left Draco a bitter taste.
Hermione’s mouth pressed into a thin line, briefly turning to watch Berriky aid another pair of students.
Oh, he pushed it away enough to focus on casting and defending, but Hermione’s words kept repeating.
He had already warned Ron and Hermione not to wait for him in the morning.
Hermione gave him a strangely knowledgeable look, but Ron was easily convinced with the idea that Harry wanted an early breakfast in the kitchens.
Hermione’s eyes widened and she quickly turned to the front, forcing Ron to as well.
Draco felt the slightest warmth when Potter remained in the kitchens with him for the second time, instead of running off to see Granger and Weasley.
Monday meant a Potions practical and a due-in homework assignment, so Harry took out his textbook and his own potions reference text alongside his assignment, which had only been halfway completed—Hermione had not been happy about that.
He escaped, feeling Hermione’s worried look against his back, but he couldn’t stand all the fucking happiness—didn’t they know that his parents had died on this day, seventeen years ago?
“Harry, you’re almost late!” Hermione was the first person Harry saw.
“I was wondering if you’d come to the Library with me.” He suddenly flushed and quickly added, “With Hermione and Ron too.
Harry might not mind his presence, but it was highly likely Granger and Weasley would.
Hermione and Ron won’t mind.” Harry did not meet Draco’s eyes as he said those last words.
Harry quickly looked over his shoulder, but it was only Hermione’s otter Patronus.
He couldn’t though, because Hermione would see his hurt hand, and she would ask and worry.
He realised that loitering outside the kitchens might make Hermione worry too.
After lunch, Harry, Hermione and Ron moved to the common room.
He sent a Patronus to Hermione and led the way up the stairs.
His head turned towards the door, just as Hermione pushed it open.
“You’ve been a lot happier lately,” Hermione said, “and you’ve stopped sneaking out at night.”
Hermione started to rise, arm lifting up as though to block him, but Ron was already talking.
“I think the Dursleys are the kind of people who are homophobic and they probably told you blatantly wrong information,” Hermione said fiercely.
He was utterly unprepared for Hermione tackling him and hugging him.
The image of Hermione being his mum rose sharply in his mind and he felt embarrassed.
But mostly, he felt relief that Hermione knew and could still stand to touch him.
“If this happened before, I would’ve told you to stay away from Malfoy,” Hermione admitted.
In the end, Hermione roped both of them into joining her interrupted study session, and when Harry impulsively checked the Map, Hermione only smiled indulgently at him, and Ron rolled his eyes.
He turned his head, to watch Draco work, and he remembered his conversation with Hermione and Ron the day before.
Hermione and Ron had given him the closest thing to a blessing to date Draco.
Hermione and Ron were fine with it, and Draco seemed fine about it too, but the Daily Prophet was not fine with it.
Harry had a sinking feeling that he wasn’t okay, that Hermione was lying and that being gay wasn't something normal after all.
Harry panicked when he heard that, and Hermione and Ron hadn’t heard it, so they couldn’t say anything.
A few students approached him directly, alone and without Ron or Hermione.
“I think I’ll go to bed early,” he told Hermione and Ron weakly.
Hermione and Ron didn't care about what Harry's preferences were, assuming they weren't lying to him.
“Hermione and Ron already know, so you don’t have to worry about them.
Hermione and Ron already know that I sort of fancy you, so I want to tell them.
Hermione glanced around the common room furtively, before leaning in and whispering, “I tried to convince Rita Skeeter to retract her statements.
But she's apparently registered as an animagus already.” Hermione’s mouth twisted into a grimace.
Harry flushed, and he could tell Hermione noticed because her eyes widened.
Hermione nodded, and dropped the subject, but she still looked mildly reprimanding.
Draco’s hand immediately went to his wand, but it was Granger.
“Yes.” He slipped the last book into his bag and followed Granger out of the classroom.
“It’s about Harry.” Granger looked at him expectantly, but Draco did not offer anything.
Harry wanted secrecy and closed doors, but that he had named Granger as one of the few he wanted to tell and actually told her gave Draco a glimmer of hope that Harry did mean to follow through.
Granger left briskly, while Draco made a more cautious scan of the surrounding students.
Granger and Weasley were waiting for them in the common room, after he and Harry returned from the kitchens.
He looked between Harry and Granger, before putting his hand forward to Draco.
They formed pairs when they left the tower and, to Draco’s surprise, Granger placed herself next to him.
Granger hurried forward slightly and touched Harry and Weasley in the back.
“Draco’s started the project too!” Harry and Weasley parted to let Granger through the middle, and thus they became the Golden Trio.
“It’s not due until way after the Christmas hols, Hermione,” Weasley whined.
“Ronald Weasley, you know perfectly well that you never do homework during the holidays!” Granger said sternly.
He debated silently about whose wrath he could more easily take, and replied, “It’s supposed to be your work, not mine or—Hermione’s,” remembering at the last second to use Granger’s given name.
Oh, Merlin, Draco realised that he might end up being forced to be friends with Granger by bonding over school work.
Granger immediately took the lead, heading towards one of the larger square tables further back.
Draco found himself manoeuvred to sit next to Granger, with Harry directly opposite him.
Granger gave him a quick nod, which he returned before heading towards the shelves.
If Granger could want to befriend him, she would not stand for the mistreatment of Slytherins.
It had to be one of the Slytherins—no one else came near him, and it was unfamiliar enough that he knew it wasn’t Granger, Weasley, or Harry.
“I would have loved to have seen the look on your face when Granger talked to you.
When Weasley and Granger arrived, the pair gave them a curious look, and Granger made her way to the back, followed by a less-eager Weasley.
As expected, Granger immediately turned her attention to the front, and by example, Harry and Weasley followed.
Ron and Hermione were already lining up at the ingredients cupboard.
Granger had gone in the opposite direction to the Eighth Year Dorms.
He jumped out of the sofa, ignored Hermione’s startled question, and dashed out of the Eighth Year common room.
He was relieved when Hermione gave a slight nod and sat down again.
“When will you tell us what’s up, Harry?” Hermione pestered as they walked towards the Great Hall for dinner, and as they sat down at the Gryffindor table, and after she caught him looking at Draco across the Hall.
“Hmm...” Hermione did not look placated, but at least she stopped questioning Harry in-between bites.
Harry looked lively and unconcerned as he chattered with Weasley and Granger.
Granger gave him a searching look, but obligingly made space for him next to Harry.
“That was both unexpectedly, yet expectedly, showy of him,” Hermione murmured.
“We’ll just ignore them then, won’t we, Harry?” Hermione said sternly.
It was like Hermione said, if the Daily Prophet thought being gay—or bisexual, Harry reminded himself—was bad, then all the more reason to punch the Prophet in the face by being out.
Of course, Ron and Hermione would be committed to the reconciliation.
Amelia and Lela were spreading the words, “they’re kissing again,” Hermione was laughing, Teddy and Victoire were saying “cheese” over and over very loudly and very quickly, and Draco even recognised Father's voice saying cheese.
Hermione had long given up hope of seeing in the darkness.
Prodding Hermione’s chin up with her wand so that their eyes met, she said, “You’ll understand soon enough.”
Umbridge giggled, and her cloying, sugary breath ghosted over Hermione’s face.
Rough hands dragged Hermione from the corner and tried to pull her hands away from her eyes.
Umbridge wasn’t the strongest caster Hermione had been cursed by, but she meant it.
Hermione could feel her brain scrabbling to escape; to break free of the suspended agony.
Hermione thought she recognised it, but her mind was too awhirl with agony to place it.
Hermione felt leather straps bind her wrists and ankles, and something was forced between her teeth.
You can go now,” the healer said as he prodded Hermione again with his wand.
With a complicated flip of his wand and an incantation Hermione couldn’t make out, she watched a dark stream of purple flame shoot into her stomach.
The last thing Hermione remembered was that she thought he might be Marcus Flint.
Hermione wasn’t sure why it was the first comparison that came to mind.
It can hardly be surprising if one or two manage to fall through the cracks as Miss Granger did.”
“Did you really think our Lord would forget about a prisoner like Hermione Granger?
The healer leaned closer to study Hermione, and Hermione could make her out somewhat against the brightness.
The healer stared at her contemplatively before waving her wand over Hermione’s head.
“Yes,” Hermione said, looking down at the blanket on her lap.
A simple wand manipulation drew the magically projected image of Hermione’s brain into view.
Hermione paused a moment, trying to calculate if the question was based on seeking a diagnosis or potentially to extract information.
Harry and Ron,” Hermione said, looking down as her throat tightened.
“Glad to be so interesting,” Hermione said, her lip curling as she opened her eyes to glare at the healer.
Hermione supposed it was, but it just all felt like too much.
With its eager conductivity, especially aided with a magical core matching the prisoner’s wand, the copper sucked up almost every bit of building magic inside Hermione.
Her right eye was staring at Hermione, but her left eye was gone.
Hermione felt as though she’d been struck violently in the chest.
The war had dragged on with high casualties given the size of the wizarding population, but Hermione hadn’t thought Voldemort would notice, much less care.
“We—have to get out,” Hermione said in as steady a voice as she could manage.
The curtain on the other side of Hermione snapped open, and the healer from earlier reappeared, looking harried.
“The Dark Lord wants to watch your examination himself,” the healer said, reaching out and grabbing Hermione’s arm forcefully.
“Oh, you stupid little witch.” The healer sighed, and gestured to someone standing out of Hermione's vision.
Two guards appeared from behind the curtain and shot two successive stunners at Hermione.
The small wizard was speaking in a thin, trembling voice, gesturing up at a projection of Hermione’s brain.
“I like to think I am,” Voldemort said, looking down into Hermione’s eyes.
Hermione was writhing as she sought to get away—to escape the invasion.
He viciously probed Hermione’s mind until she lay limp and barely conscious on the table.
“You remember the Mudblood, I presume.” Voldemort moved back toward Hermione, staring down at her and running a skeletal finger along his lipless mouth.
She was an insufferable student to teach.” Snape walked over to survey Hermione, who was still strapped down on the table.
He paused for a moment and then looked down at Hermione.
His invasion was dramatically less traumatic than Voldemort’s, but Hermione was still weeping and shuddering by the time he finally slowly withdrew.
“Fascinating,” he said, staring down at Hermione with a somewhat conflicted expression.
