CURRENT QUEST: The Syrcus Trench
CURRENT QUEST: City of the First
CURRENT QUEST: Travelers of Norvrandt
CURRENT QUEST: In Search of Alphinaud
CURRENT QUEST: A Still Tide
CURRENT QUEST: Open Arms, Closed Gate
CURRENT QUEST: A Fickle Existence
CURRENT QUEST: City of Final Pleasures
CURRENT QUEST: Free to Sightsee
CURRENT QUEST: A Taste of Honey
CURRENT QUEST: A Blessed Instrument
CURRENT QUEST: Emergent Splendor
CURRENT QUEST: In Search of Alisaie
CURRENT QUEST: City of the Mord
CURRENT QUEST: Working Off the Meal
CURRENT QUEST: A Desert Crossing
CURRENT QUEST: Following in Her Footprints
CURRENT QUEST: Culling Their Ranks
CURRENT QUEST: A Purchase of Fruit
CURRENT QUEST: The Time Left to Us
CURRENT QUEST: Tears on the Sand
CURRENT QUEST: The Lightwardens
CURRENT QUEST: Warrior of Darkness
CURRENT QUEST: Ys Iala’s Errand
CURRENT QUEST: Oul Sigun’s Plea
CURRENT QUEST: An Unwelcome Guest
CURRENT QUEST: The Crystarium's Resolve
CURRENT QUEST: Logistics of War
CURRENT QUEST: The Oracle of Light
CURRENT QUEST: Il Mheg, the Faerie Kingdom
CURRENT QUEST: Sul Uin's Request
CURRENT QUEST: Ys Iala's Errand
CURRENT QUEST: Oul Sigun's Plea
CURRENT QUEST: Unto the Truth
CURRENT QUEST: Courting Cooperation
CURRENT QUEST: The Key to the Castle
CURRENT QUEST: A Visit to the Nu Mou
CURRENT QUEST: A Fitting Payment
CURRENT QUEST: Spore Sweeper
CURRENT QUEST: The Lawless Ones
CURRENT QUEST: The Elder's Answer
CURRENT QUEST: A Resounding Roar
CURRENT QUEST: Memento of a Friend
CURRENT QUEST: Acht-la Ormh Inn
CURRENT QUEST: The Wheel Turns
I am Emet-Selch. Ascian. 
Behold the sky, restored to its former glory! Have you ever seen a more affecting spectacle? Ohhh, it is truly, deeply... ..Infuriating. Do you have any idea how much you have delayed the Rejoining? Following the Flood, the First had been listing ever further towards the Light─towards stasis. The end was in sight! Enter man and his indomitable spirit. He would haul the world back from the brink! And adding his lumpen weight to the power of growth, he duly tipped the scales, if only by a fraction. Yet a fraction was enough to spoil the perfect imbalance needed to bring about a Rejoining! Had mankind continued to live in idleness under Vauthry's rule, all the conditions would have been met... But you had to come and ruin it all! Thanks to your meddling, Light's supremacy is in doubt, and our painstakingly laid plans are in tatters! 
Happy to let me go, are you? Because the murderous glint in your eye suggests otherwise. Indeed, it is enough to make me think better of confronting you alone. Look, it did cross my mind to simply side with Vauthry and kill you all. But that's no different from what Lahabrea did. And we all know how well that ended for him. And so, while it is liable to be troublesome, I have settled upon a different approach... Cooperation! I will not raise a hand to hinder your hunt for the Lightwardens. If you desire it, I will even lend you my knowledge and strength. 
Nay, our objective is the same as it ever was─though I daresay you do not know our motive. A war waged without knowledge of the enemy is no war─it is mere bloodletting. Just once...might we not seek to find common ground? For good or ill, I am immortal. Provided I have the inclination, I can always begin anew. Scheme and conspire to my heart's content. But this time, I thought that I might instead try to see eye to eye. To understand what drives the hero of the Source. To determine if our goals are truly incompatible. So come. Shed your preconceptions. See beyond the unscrupulous villains you take us for. When all is said and done, we may find ourselves pleasantly surprised. The proud discoverers of a path of cooperation rather than opposition. Think of it. 
My apologies. You will forgive me if I am not entirely at ease in the presence of a famed Ascian-slayer. I felt it only prudent to take precautions. Nonetheless, your counsel is duly noted. I take my leave friends. Rest assured, we shall meet again soon. 
CURRENT QUEST: Stirring up Trouble
CURRENT QUEST: A Party Soon Divided
Please. Did I not explicitly tell you that we would be meeting again soon? Lest you forget, I made you a promise. I have no intention of meddling with your mission. I come only to observe. Your Exarch friend in particular has piqued my curiosity. Summoning you all like that. Most impressive. 
So petty. I meant what I said and I said what I meant. Wage your war against the sin eaters. Put each and every Lightwarden to the sword. Prove yourselves heroes brave and true, and I will be glad to embrace you as allies. Allies worthy of bearing the burden of truth. Surely such a partnership would be preferable to yet another round of fisticuffs? ...And thus did the olive branch wither and die. Pity. Well─let no man say I did not try, futile as it was. Though I suspect you will seek me out when you grow tired of making the same mistakes. Difficult decisions lie ahead of you. Decisions best made with the benefit of knowledge to which only the eternal are privy. For now, I shall resume my shadowy vigil. Whatever you choose to do, make sure it's worth watching, would you. 
CURRENT QUEST: A Little Faith
CURRENT QUEST: Into the Dark
"No lands must remain beyond our grasp. Go forth. Conquer. Rule.“ Forgive me. A sudden pang of nostalgia for those halcyon days. Exploring virgin territories, subjugating primitive peoples. All for the glory of Garlemald! 
Can we not simply take a moment to enjoy the view together? Or would you rather I spied on you from the shadows? Much more of this, and I may very well begin to regret my show of good faith. 
Mmm... No, I think not. I am an observer─nothing more. Even shielded by the shadows of these boughs, I feel the Light's presence most keenly. To accompany you is taxing enough. To fight is out of the question. 
What is it now? Do you expect me to regale you with friendly banter? ...Oh, very well. I will humor you this once. You may consider it my latest act of good faith. Come on, then. What do you wish to know? 
Well, well, what a curious question. Mortal flesh is but the vessel into which we Ascians pour the elixir of our souls, molding it as fits the occasion. Or not, if we so choose. Be it for a year or a millennium, I prefer to retain the same form until my duty is done. So, after arriving here in the First, I fashioned some hapless body into the man you see before you. Though as your friend over there can attest, there are those of us who forgo such alterations. He was ever the rash one, Lahabrea. Jumping from vessel to vessel. Never heeding the toll it took on him. 
If you've nothing to ask me, why are you still here? Don't you have Wardens to vanquish? A realm to save? 
Well? Where is this friend of yours we've come to meet? 
Oh, for the love of... I had hoped that by accompanying you, we might come to understand one another, but all I have come to understand is that you have a knack for inflaming the natives. You've committed the cardinal sin of boring me. And so I retire to the shade. Good luck. 
CURRENT QUEST: A Day in the Neighborhood
CURRENT QUEST: A Helping Hand
CURRENT QUEST: Lost but Not Forgotten
CURRENT QUEST: Saying Good-bye
CURRENT QUEST: Stirring Up Trouble
CURRENT QUEST: A Beeautiful Plan
CURRENT QUEST: An Unwanted Proposal
CURRENT QUEST: Put to the Proof
CURRENT QUEST: Into the Wood
CURRENT QUEST: Top of the Tree
CURRENT QUEST: Look to the Stars
CURRENT QUEST: Mi Casa, Toupasa
CURRENT QUEST: Legend of the Not-so-hidden Temple
CURRENT QUEST: The Aftermath
CURRENT QUEST: In Good Faith
Well...this is embarrassing. In my defense, they are surprisingly tenacious. So─what trouble have you gotten yourselves into this time? Well, well. What an intriguing turn of events. My condolences, by the way. 'Tis never easy to lose the ones we love. Well, she is dead, isn't she? Wishing it were otherwise will not make it so. 
Interesting. I thought I sensed a brief disturbance in the Lifestream. How reassuring to know it was not my imagination. I felt it only once, I should mention. Which would suggest she is still adrift on its currents. 
Oh...very well. I'll go and fetch her... Perhaps a clear and unambiguous act of kindness will serve to win the trust you seem so determined to deny me. 
Now then, if I'm to fetch her for you, I will require a suitable place to work. We must find somewhere that resonates strongly with the Lifestream. And by we, I mean you. To that end, I give you this─an aetherial lamp of my own design. Keep it close as you venture out into the woods. The brighter the glow, the stronger the location's resonance with the Lifestream. Once you've found a likely spot, all you need do is whistle. You do know how to whistle, don't you, hero? Just put your lips together and blow. Well, what are you standing around here for? Get searching! You do want to save her, don't you? 
Yes, this place should serve well enough. Might I have a little space? I need to concentrate. Now then...what color was her soul again? Ah... There you are. 
Ahem. Is there aught you wish to say to me? A word of thanks, perhaps? 
What a touching reunion that was. It fair brought a tear to the eye. But as we both know, such tender moments are nothing if not momentary. Before long, they will remember their many differences, and return to squabbling. 
Oh, if I had a gil for every time one of you heroes made that claim... 
Ah hah hah! Flattery will get you nowhere, dear boy. 
But seriously, we Ascians do what we do for the greater good. For the Rejoining. Though we may sow the seeds of chaos, it is man who tends them, he who reaps their bountiful harvest. But I grow tired of these arguments. If you would kindly refrain from retorting and return to your customary brooding silence, I will take it as thanks for rescuing your companion and leave it at that. Now, we mustn't keep your friends waiting. 
I told you, I tire of these inane arguments. Shouldn't you be getting ready to slay the next Lightwarden or something? 
CURRENT QUEST: The Burden of Knowledge
I told you, I tire of these inane arguments. Shouldn't you be getting ready to slay the next Lightwarden or something? 
Lest you doubt, I won't be helping you do battle with the Lightwarden. To accompany you thus is quite taxing enough. Now, if you've no further questions...? 
Not a single one. Happily, I am quite content to mingle with the masses. And even if I did crave the company of my own kind, one might say we're understaffed at present. There are no strict rules governing how we work, though that has not been without its consequences. In the beginning, we were each responsible for a shard, and free to do as we wished, but Igeyorhm's impetuous temperament showed us the folly in that. In light of her failings, we took to working in tandem as the situation demanded. Mitron and Loghrif were supposed to take care of the First, of course. Alas, they were slain by the champions of this realm shortly before the Flood. Expendable though they were, I found them quite useful. But that is a tale for another time. 
Then run along back to your friends and leave me be! 
Must you always linger after defeating your enemies? Navigating these halls on foot is exhausting. 
Hmph! I was bored. But how is the hero of the hour? Hmm. Fighting fit, I see. Keep up the good work. 
Every hour of every day. But never you mind about that. As I have told you a thousand times before: I like to watch. Nothing more. Well! I would quit this place, and I suggest you do the same. There is yet work to be done. Ah...there is a sight to bring a tear to the eye. 
That I do. Indeed, there was a time when anyone and everyone would. Until one calamitous day when the world was divided across ten and three reflections, sundering the land and all who dwelled upon it. And the worst part? No one could remember it. Not really. Just fragments and fleeting memories of an achingly familiar world... A vision shared of a paradise lost, preserved only in song and scripture and paint... Once upon a time. Yet here we find ourselves again. To look, learn, and remember... 
Before the great sundering, there was one world. A world that knew naught but peace and prosperity. Until it was faced with a crisis. Unprecedented, terrifying. Civilization found itself perched upon a precipice, staring into oblivion. But through prayer and sacrifice, the will of the star was made manifest. Zodiark was His name, and by His grace was the calamity averted. 
A savior mighty and magnificent, deserving of reverence and gratitude...one would have thought. Yet some thought otherwise. From the fears of these naysayers would rise Hydaelyn─She who was to serve as His shackles. To bind Him and hold Him in check. And so they fought, and they fought, and they fought. And in the end...Hydaelyn was victorious. With all Her strength She smote Him─dealing a blow so devastating that it split the very fabric of reality. And thus was Zodiark banished and His being divided. That concludes today's lesson on long-forgotten history. Though I imagine your Mother would offer a rather contradictory account. As is Her wont. 
What? Not gods of the First? Is that what you thought these paintings depicted? Or...? Oh! Ohhh... They are gods after a fashion, yes, but no different from the kind with which you are so intimately acquainted. Formed of faith and prayer, of conviction and devotion... The eldest and most powerful...of primals. 
Finally, finally, you ask the right question! And shrewd questions warrant honest answers... We Ascians know because it is our history. Our story. It was we who summoned Zodiark─we natives of that sundered paradise. Now do you see why we yearn for the Great Rejoining? For our world...for our people...for all creation to be made whole again. Wouldn't you wish for the same? 
CURRENT QUEST: Bearing with It
CURRENT QUEST: Out of the Wood
CURRENT QUEST: When It Rains
CURRENT QUEST: Word from On High
CURRENT QUEST: Small Favors
CURRENT QUEST: The Best Way Out
Sorry I'm late. Though I would not have been had anyone thought to notify me in advance. 
Oh, I see... I thought you were a rather underwhelming reincarnation, but it all makes sense now. The Oracle lies dormant within you, doesn't she? But to draw on her true power, you must become one, both body and soul. To wit, one being must consume the other. Who shall be the lucky winner? 
But it plainly concerns you. Which is why your heart is ready to burst out of your chest. Despite the raging tempest in your bosom, however, you have never once opened up to your young charge. Now why would that be? Love...? Well, I for one think it's a marvelous idea. Certainly more promising than any of your other suggestions. So─it's off to Amh Araeng we go! 
<sigh> Will you never grow tired of shuffling your feet? If you have something to ask me, ask. 
As I told you before─Zodiark is the creation of my people. The first people. We summoned Him, as your kind might summon a primal─albeit an infinitely more powerful one. And like one of your primals, He tempered us. It was only natural. There is no resisting such power. And so we Ascians came to exist solely to bring about the rule of darkness. His darkness. Of course, some would call us “evil” for it...and they would be fools. Though that is only to be expected, given their innate inability to conceive of the nature of our universe. ...But I believe I am repeating myself. Do you not trust me to speak honestly? Do you hope to catch me in a lie? Really. I have no need of deception─and even if I did, I assure you: you would find it quite indistinguishable from the truth. 
Hmph. Perhaps I flatter myself expecting you to take an interest in the knowledge I possess. Or perhaps I flatter you. 
CURRENT QUEST: Free Trade
CURRENT QUEST: The Trolley Problem
CURRENT QUEST: Rust and Ruin
CURRENT QUEST: On Track
CURRENT QUEST: Down for Maintenance
CURRENT QUEST: The Truth Hurts
CURRENT QUEST: A Convenient Distraction
CURRENT QUEST: A Dirty Job
CURRENT QUEST: Have a Heart
Oh, to the tediousness of our heroes' present endeavors. That, and the insufferable abundance of Light in Amh Araeng. I should be glad to keep my distance. Not that my compeers would agree, mind you. Always on the move, the lot of them. Like Lahabrea, constantly jumping from vessel to vessel. Such fire, such determination! So much passion, fleeting and forgotten... Come to think of it, Exarch, I don't believe I've ever seen you retire to your chambers for so much as forty winks. However do you keep your eyes from closing? The cold shoulder. You wound me, sir. Always so guarded in our every interaction─interactions you curiously refrain from sharing with the Scions and their champion... 
Is that right? Fond of her, are you? You continue to fascinate me, Exarch. But tell me: who are you? The once great nation whose ingenuity gave birth to this tower was shaped by my hand. As such, I know full well the wonders it can facilitate...and those it cannot. There is nothing in these walls which could have aided you in summoning our dear friend across time and space. Much less in possession of her mortal flesh! Not even I could have performed such a feat. 
Well, it seems we are both eager to fulfill our duties, then. 
CURRENT QUEST: Full Steam Ahead
CURRENT QUEST: Crossroads
CURRENT QUEST: A Fresh Start
CURRENT QUEST: More than a Hunch
CURRENT QUEST: Return to Eulmore
You labor under the misapprehension that vanquishing the sin eaters is tantamount to saving the world. It is not. In truth, you only delay the inevitable, lengthening your fleeting lives by the smallest of margins. 'Twould be churlish of me to deny you this small concession, close as we've become. Foolish and misguided though you are, you are not without charm. Each and every one of you is possessed of a noble heart. When the weak want for succor, you do not hesitate to provide it. Alas, your nobility is shortsighted. You think only of the problem in front of your nose. A limitation of your ephemeral existence. 
Ah, if I may stop you there─I do not claim that we Ascians are special. That is another misconception. In the beginning, everyone─everyone lived nigh for eternity. Such was the natural order of things. But like so much else, this was taken from you. You won't object if I borrow your plaything. In the distant past, when the world was one and whole, a great calamity threatened all life. It began without warning. The very laws of the star were warped and broken, and chaos swiftly spread throughout the land. Faced with annihilation, we sought to imbue the star with its own will. Thus was Zodiark born, and by His power was order restored. Ere long, however, thankless fools began to fear that Zodiark's might was too great. And so they conjured another to keep Him in check─your own dear Hydaelyn. 
Yes, yes... And there began our woes─with Hydaelyn's blow, and all that it wrought. As a counterbalance to Zodiark, Hydaelyn was created with the power to enervate Her foe. This singular ability strikes not at such banal things as flesh, but everything that defines the target, diluting its existence. For example, were She to strike you... Two individuals, identical in appearance, yet reduced in all respects. Strength, intelligence, the soul itself─all is halved. Do you see? This selfsame fate befell not only Zodiark, but the very star. Only three were fortunate enough to escape the sundering─me being one of them. When I beheld the shattered remnants of our home, I knew deepest despair. The inhabitants of these fourteen fragments were feeble, frail, and foolish. Oblivious to their imperfection, ignorant of their past. Malformed creatures thrashing blindly about. Pitiful. Disturbing. Depressing. So we took it upon ourselves to rejoin the worlds. But in our eagerness─and, I confess, our ignorance─we erred, and made a useless void of the Thirteenth. It was only afterwards that we discovered a connection 'twixt Source and shard─a flow of energy that maintains elemental balance. And thus did we arrive at our time-honored modus operandi. 
By your fragmented existence, you continue to give rise to tragedies far crueler than any calamity. But yes, moral relativism and all that. Case in point─I do not consider you to be truly alive. Ergo, I will not be guilty of murder if I kill you. Oh, don't look at me like that. You for whom I have only the highest expectations. A vaunted hero of the Source, seven times rejoined. Long have I awaited one who might brave a path of lesser tragedy. A resilient soul able to endure the necessary pain. I dare to hope that my wait is over. So, finish your task and slay the Lightwarden. Make proof of your usefulness. And then we may speak again. 
Yes? Did my lesson provoke thought, giving rise to further questions? 
Why, their very beings were divided into fourteen, of course. Yet by our power, we unsundered Ascians may raise up one of their fragments to their original office. Ah, but I suppose this in itself bears explaining. So...the names by which you know us are not, in fact, our names. Be it Elidibus or Lahabrea or Igeyorhm, all are titles of office. And when an office is vacated, it may be filled by another. Over the eons, I have overseen several changings of the guard among our sundered brethren. And in such instances, the vacant title ordinarily goes to another fragment of the selfsame soul. While it is by no means impossible to raise up wholly unrelated individuals, 'tis we whose fervent entreaties brought forth Lord Zodiark─whose souls He claimed in the beginning─who make the truest servants. 
Then none would remain to raise up new Ascians, and our kind would eventually fade from existence. You would like that, wouldn't you? Well, feel free to dream─'tis no crime to do so. 
Hm! There may come a day when I reveal my true name to you─but this is not it. Of course, you may well die none the wiser, but life is full of such disappointments. 
If that is all, then run along. You have a Lightwarden to slay. 
CURRENT QUEST: A Feast of Lies
CURRENT QUEST: Paradise Fallen
CURRENT QUEST: The Ladder
CURRENT QUEST: The View from Above
Would you look at that? The citizens of Eulmore engaging in what can only be described as “manual labor.” Who would have thought it possible? Do you know the most reliable way to deal with those who stubbornly refuse to see reason? You conquer them─crush them under heel. Such was the trusted method of Allag, and one still favored by Garlemald. But conquest is the easy part. The true challenge begins once the dust has settled─quenching the glowing embers of animosity and maintaining a semblance of peace. This requires the conqueror to treat the conquered with dignity, and the conquered to let bygones be bygones. A difficult feat to achieve. But you have achieved just that...to my considerable surprise. It's a compliment. Take it. Ahh, the vibrant energy that fills the air when like-minded souls gather. To think back on that time before time fair brings a tear to the eye. What? You thought ancient beings like us incapable of crying? Well, rest assured that if your heart can be broken, then so can mine! Back when the world was whole, we had family, friends, loves... Men knew peace and contentment, and with our adamant souls, we could live for an age. There was no conflict born of want or disparity. Our differences paled into insignificance next to all we had in common. And then there was Amaurot... Never was a city more magnificent. From the humblest streets to the highest spires, she fairly gleamed... Not that you would remember any of this. 
Never mind. The point is: the world of old was a far better place than what we have now. I believe you would like it, having witnessed the things you have. Remember, you are of the Source. Unlike the halfmen here, you stand only to gain. Should you survive the remaining calamities, you will become our equal. A complete existence in a complete world. But such talk is a pleasure for later. Back to work, hero. Ah, there was one thing I had meant to ask. How well do you know the Exarch? Has he ever deigned to show you what hides beneath the cowl? What, never? Even to you? How very interesting... I shall enjoy working out what it means. Until next time. 
CURRENT QUEST: In Mt. Gulg's Shadow
CURRENT QUEST: A Gigantic Undertaking
CURRENT QUEST: Meet the Tholls
CURRENT QUEST: A-Digging We Will Go
CURRENT QUEST: The Duergar's Tewel
CURRENT QUEST: Rich Veins of Hope
CURRENT QUEST: That None Shall Ever Again
CURRENT QUEST: A Breath of Respite
CURRENT QUEST: Extinguishing the Last Light
My apologies for the intrusion, but I come bearing a proposal. One that will ensure the longevity of your reign. But give me the word, sir, and I will bring hither a Lightwarden. By giving its power to the babe within your lady wife's womb, we shall create a transcendent being─a king to rule over all. And as sire to the king, your authority will never again be in question. 
By all means, sir. United under Eulmore's banner, men will cease fighting and abandon their ambitions. Thus they will grow fat and complacent, and in their sloth seal your supremacy... 
Only those who possess the Royal Eye of the Allagan imperial line are capable of controlling the Crystal Tower. Such individuals do not exist in the First. Therefore, in all likelihood, the Exarch arrived here with the tower. This much I had surmised, yet I could not discern his grand scheme. To think that he went through all this trouble for the sake of a single hero. It's almost admirable in its absurdity. Alas, it is not your grand scheme that will succeed, but ours. You bastard! Stay put. Your friend is still alive, but whether he remains so depends on you. What a disappointment you turned out to be. I placed my faith in you. Let myself believe that you could contain the Light. But look at you now, halfway to becoming a monster. You are unworthy of my patronage. 
I am an Ascian. My heart's sole desire is to usher in the Great Rejoining. A hundred years ago, I entrusted my comrade Loghrif with the task of increasing Light's sway over this world. This we sought to do by manipulating heroes. When that failed to achieve the desired result, I created Vauthry. But thanks to your meddling, that too has ended in failure. 
By your Twelve, boy, have I not told you before that everything I said was the truth? You were specimens by which I might gauge man's potential as it stands. I genuinely had an interest in you. Genuinely considered taking you on as allies. Provided he could contain and control the Light. If not then she─and by extension you─would be of no use to me. 'Twas as simple as that. 
Then I simply kill you all. At the very least, it would restore the world to the way it was before you went about trouncing Lightwardens willy-nilly. Suffice it to say it would be most inconvenient to have all that Light taken away─and I would be lying if I were to claim his actions didn't have me worried. Hm, you still retain your form and your senses...but you have all but become a sin eater. Whether you will it or no, your mere existence will serve to engulf the world in Light. Those in your company will likewise turn into sin eaters, and in time you will succumb to your base instincts and hunt innocents to feast on their sweet, sweet aether. Those few with the will left to fight may rise up against you. But before your absolute might, they will quickly know despair. "There is no hope! We are finished! Mankind is finished!" Ahhh, the irony. What Vauthry achieved through bliss, you will achieve through despair. But I have overstayed my welcome. I shall look forward to seeing you bring the world to its knees, hero. 
I have naught to show for all the time and effort I invested in you. He is a small token for my troubles. I did not expect that I could learn aught from man, but I may yet learn something from all the knowledge he had hoarded for his precious hero. I pity you, I do. Your friends are now your foes. If you do not kill them, they will kill you. When it all becomes too much to bear, seek me out at my abode, in the dark depths of the Tempest. There, you may complete your descent into madness with some dignity, far from prying eyes. Till then, I bid you farewell...eater. 
CURRENT QUEST: Reassuring the Masses
CURRENT QUEST: In His Garden
CURRENT QUEST: The Unbroken Thread
CURRENT QUEST: To Storm-tossed Seas
CURRENT QUEST: Waiting in the Depths
CURRENT QUEST: City of the Ancients
CURRENT QUEST: The Light of Inspiration
CURRENT QUEST: The Illuminated Land
CURRENT QUEST: The End of a World
CURRENT QUEST: A Greater Purpose
CURRENT QUEST: Shadowbringers
This really is unacceptable. I gave you very specific instructions. 
My invitation was for an abomination, ripe with the power to bring about the world's annihilation. Not this half-broken...thing. Whatever am I to do with you? And I see you insist on keeping the same familiar company. Are you so lost without them? 
I may have gotten a little carried away, in my attention to detail. Added a few unnecessary flourishes... Weeell, there's no point trying to hide it. Yes. Once the rejoining of worlds is complete, Zodiark will regain His full strength and shatter His prison. Then we shall offer up the Source's remaining inhabitants in sacrifice, that we might resurrect our brethren who died to bring Zodiark into existence. But what was it that you came here to do, exactly? 
Did you now? One last do-or-die attempt to foil my plans before your mind dissolves into madness? How very, very...heroic of you. In every single age, there is always someone who wants to stand up to the evil Ascians. Always the same arrogance, the same insistence that the world belongs to them. As if theirs were the only rightful claim, theirs the only existence worthy of preservation! 
Well, you can't have him. The wisdom that man guards may open up new worlds of possibilities. He has unlocked the secrets of travel across the rift─and through time as well, it would seem. Quite an accomplishment for one of his “incomplete” nature. I must explore the limits of his capabilities, and harness that power for the Ardor. 
Even now, after everything, you refuse to see reason. You think it unfair that you are subject to suffering? That your lives will be sacrificed for the ancients? Look at me! I have lived a thousand thousand of your lives! I have broken bread with you, fought with you, grown ill, grown old! Sired children and yes, welcomed death's sweet embrace. For eons have I measured your worth and found you wanting! Too weak and feeble-minded to serve as stewards of any star! Have your recent spats with Vauthry and his sin eaters taught you nothing? Have you not learned that your ignorance and frailty beget only endless misery? How long do you mean to perpetuate this farce? How much more must I endure your bumbling interference? Let us imagine that the laws of reality are again undone, and the world faces true annihilation. Do you honestly believe that half your number would sacrifice themselves to save the other? Of course they wouldn't! And if you had witnessed history unfold as I have, you would reach the same conclusion! You cannot be entrusted with our legacy. I will bring back our brethren. Our friends. Our loved ones. The world belongs to us and us alone. 
You think us the same? You think your tattered soul of equal worth to those I lost? Then come─earn your place. Prove yourselves worthy to inherit this star. Behold, the coming oblivion. 'Twas the end of our era, and the beginning of our great work. A fitting backdrop...for your final judgment. I shall wait within, but do not spend too much time on your preparations. There's no telling how much longer the guest of honor will last. 
Well, well, you prevailed... Nevertheless! Your performance was underwhelming, and I remain unconvinced of your worthiness. Oh, you tower over your misbegotten ilk, no doubt. But should I bring my full strength to bear, well...you would be as leaves in the wind. The gulf between us is a reflection of the disparity between the world as it was...and what it has become. 
You are a mistake. For we who have known perfection, the shattered Source and these shards are ghastly mockeries of the true world. The ephemeral lives you exalt are pale imitations, utterly devoid of meaning. 
Hmph, more prattle. Fool. Who are you? No one. Nothing. Once I have reclaimed my heritage, my first act will be to expunge your stain from history's weave. My world will have no need for heroes. Still fighting the good fight... 
Do not presume to speak of my future! And you! Why waste your final moments in futile defiance? Weary wanderer─you've no fight left to fight! No life left to live! Hah hah hah hah hah! You see! The Light will not be denied! Surrender to your fate, and let the transformation take you! Rise up in madness and fury! Devour the vermin infesting the land which is rightfully ours! 
No... It can't be... Bah, a trick of the light. You are a broken husk, nothing more. How can you hope to stand against me alone? 
How did─!? ...I'm surprised you can stand at all. 
Damn you! Damn you all! 
Very well. Let us proceed to your final judgment. The victor shall write the tale, and the vanquished become its villain! But come! Let us cast aside titles and pretense, and reveal our true faces to one another! I am Hades! He who shall awaken our brethren from their dark slumber! 
Remember...remember us... Remember...that we once lived... 
