Run away now!
You will get plenty when the time comes.
How bright your garden looks!
Indeed it would take away the only point I ever saw in the affair.
I think really he preferred slipping off quietly in the end.
Bilbo knew no more than he told you, I am sure.
To tell you the truth, I believe that hitherto – _hitherto,_mark you – he has entirely overlooked the existence of hobbits.
Who will laugh, I wonder?
No, but I had to badger you, I wanted the truth. It was important.
Magic rings are, well, magical; and they are rare and curious. I was professionally interested in your ring, you may say; and I still am.
I should like to know where it is, if you go wandering again.
Also I think you have had it quite long enough.
You won't need it any more. Bilbo, unless I am quite mistaken.
So do I, and so do all who live to see such times.
Yes, yes. But there is no need to get angry.
You ought to begin to understand, Frodo, after all you have heard.
I saw him there, but before that he had wandered far, following Bilbo's trail.
Whatever it may do, it will be slow, slow to evil, if you keep it with that purpose.
You have talked long in your sleep, Frodo, and it has not been hard for me to read your mind and memory.
Everything? The ring as well? You agreed to that, you remember.
I was delayed, and that nearly proved our ruin.
You will soon hear all you wish to know.
You don't know much even about them, if you think old Barliman is stupid.
You have talked and reckoned more than is good for you.
Yes, fortune or fate have helped you, not to mention courage.
Well, there are many reasons why they should.
That is the warning bell for the Council of Elrond.
Some, Galdor, would think the tidings of Glóin, and the pursuit of Frodo, proof enough that the halfling's trove is a thing of great worth to the Enemy.
From the first my heart misgave me, against all reason that I knew, and I desired to know how this thing came to Gollum, and how long he had possessed it.
But in that time also he made this scroll; and that is not remembered in Gondor, it would seem.
And let us hope that none will ever speak it here again.
Then it was late in coming, as you will see.
Eight out of the Nine are accounted for at least.
It is for the Dimrill Dale that we are making.
May you have joy of the sight, my good dwarf.
To the end of the journey – in the end.
And in that case so is the Redhorn Gate; and how we can get over that without being seen, I cannot imagine.
It matters little who is the enemy, if we cannot beat off his attack;
Give them this.
If Elves could fly over mountains, they might fetch the Sun to save us.
We still have our journey and our errand before us.
You are right, Frodo, to go back is to admit defeat and face worse defeat to come.
The road that I speak of leads to the Mines of Moria.
You speak of what you do not know, when you liken Moria to the stronghold of Sauron.
There was a door south-west of Caradhras, some fifteen miles as the crow flies, and maybe twenty as the wolf runs.
We must reach the doors before sunset, or I fear we shall not reach them at all.
There are the Walls of Moria.
But in any case we cannot take the poor beast into the Mines.
I have heard both; and I will not give judgement now.
But this Door was not made to be a secret known only to Dwarves.
The words are in the elven-tongue of the West of Middle-earth in the Elder Days.
Knock on the doors with your head, Peregrin Took.
I do not know, but the arms were all guided by one purpose.
That is all that I shall venture on for the present.
Well, I can read no more for a long way, except the word gold, and Durin's Axe and something helm.
I fear he had ill tidings to record in a fair hand.
Now, now, my dear hobbit!
All your long life we have been friends, and you owe me something.
Come! Do as you promised: give it up!
No, don't give the ring to me.
Put it on the mantelpiece.
It will be safe enough there, till Frodo comes. I shall wait for him.
It may, and it may not. I should not make use of it, if I were you.
But keep it secret, and keep it safe! Now I am going to bed.
Don't do that! Do be careful of that ring, Frodo!
In fact, it is partly about that that I have come to say a last word.
I have merely begun to wonder about the ring, especially since last night. No need to worry.
But if you take my advice you will use it very seldom, or not at all.
At least I beg you not to use it in any way that will cause talk or rouse suspicion.
So do I, and so do all who live to see such times. But that is not for them to decide.
All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given, us.
And already, Frodo, our time is beginning to look black.
The Enemy is fast becoming very strong.
His plans are far from ripe, I think, but they are ripening.
We shall be hard put to it. We should be very hard put to it, even if it were not for this dreadful chance.
There are many things in the deep waters; and seas and lands may change.
And it is not our part here to take thought only for a season, or for a few lives of Men, or for a passing age of the world.
We should seek a final end of this menace, even if we do not hope to make one.
Despair, or folly? It is not despair, for despair is only for those who see the end beyond all doubt. We do not.
It is wisdom to recognize necessity, when all other courses have been weighed, though as folly it may appear to those who cling to false hope.
Well, let folly be our cloak, a veil before the eyes of the Enemy!
For he is very wise, and weighs all things to a nicety in the scales of his malice.
But the only measure that he knows is desire, desire for power; and so he judges all hearts.
Into his heart the thought will not enter that any will refuse it, that having the Ring we may seek to destroy it.
If we seek this, we shall put him out of reckoning.
Of course, my dear Bilbo.
If you had really started this affair, you might be expected to finish it. 
But you know well enough now that starting is too great a claim for any, and that only a small part is played in great deeds by any hero.
You need not bow! Though the word was meant, and we do not doubt that under jest you are making a valiant offer.
But one beyond your strength, Bilbo.
You cannot take this thing back. It has passed on. If you need my advice any longer, I should say that your part is ended, unless as a recorder.
Finish your book, and leave the ending unaltered!
There is still hope for it. But get ready to write a sequel, when they come back.
I am afraid it will.
We can't start until we have found out about the Riders.
But you see further ahead in the clear light.
Beyond those peaks the range bends round south-west.
There are many maps in Elrond's house, but I suppose you never thought to look at them?
Then we must be more careful.
If you bring a Ranger with you, it is well to pay attention to him, especially if the Ranger is Aragorn.
We must stop talking aloud, rest quietly, and set the watch.
And in that case so is the Redhorn Gate; and how we can get over that without being seen, I cannot imagine.
But we will think of that when we must. As for moving as soon as it is dark, I am afraid that you are right.
Well, you can go on looking forward. There may be many unexpected feasts ahead for you.
For myself I should like a pipe to smoke in comfort, and warmer feet.
However, we are certain of one thing at any rate: it will get warmer as we get south.
Very well. But we must not use the wood; not unless it is a choice between fire and death.
With him I may have business of my own ere all is over. But the Ring must not come near Isengard, if that can by any means be prevented.
The Gap of Rohan is closed to us while we go with the Bearer.
As for the longer road: we cannot afford the time. We might spend a year in such a journey, and we should pass through many lands that are empty and harbourless.
Yet they would not be safe. The watchful eyes both of Saruman and of the Enemy are on them.
When you came north, Boromir, you were in the Enemy's eyes only one stray wanderer from the South and a matter of small concern to him: his mind was busy with the pursuit of the Ring.
But you return now as a member of the Ring's Company, and you are in peril as long as you remain with us.
The danger will increase with every league that we go south under the naked sky.
Since our open attempt on the mountain-pass our plight has become more desperate, I fear.
I see now little hope, if we do not soon vanish from sight for a while, and cover our trail.
Therefore I advise that we should go neither over the mountains, nor round them, but under them. That is a road at any rate that the Enemy will least expect us to take.
Good, Gimli! You encourage me. We will seek the hidden doors together. And we will come through.
In the ruins of the Dwarves, a dwarf's head will be less easy to bewilder than Elves or Men or Hobbits.
Yet it will not be the first time that I have been to Moria.
I passed through, and I came out again alive!
Of course not! Who would? But the question is: who will follow me, if I lead you there?
Need we wait until morning then? It is as I said. The hunt is up! Even if we live to see the dawn, who now will wish to journey south by night with the wild wolves on his trail?
It is as I feared. These were no ordinary wolves hunting for food in the wilderness. Let us eat quickly and go!
It is not far, but our path may be winding, for here Aragorn cannot guide us; he has seldom walked in this country, and only once have I been under the west wall of Moria, and that was long ago.
There it lies.
When we left the pass I led you southwards, and not back to our starting point, as some of you may have noticed.
It is well that I did so, for now we have several miles less to cross, and haste is needed. Let us go!
This is where the stream ran: Sirannon, the Gate-stream, they used to call it. But what has happened to the water, I cannot guess; it used to be swift and noisy. Come! We must hurry on. We are late.
But there is no mistaking the place. There is all that remains of the Stair Falls.
If I remember right, there was a flight of steps cut in the rock at their side, but the main road wound away left and climbed with several loops up to the level ground at the top.
There used to be a shallow valley beyond the falls right up to the Walls of Moria, and the Sirannon flowed through it with the road beside it.
Let us go and see what things are like now!
But in any case we cannot take the poor beast into the Mines.
The road under the mountains is a dark road, and there are places narrow and steep which he cannot tread, even if we can.
I am sorry. Poor Bill has been a useful companion and it goes to my heart to turn him adrift now.
I would have travelled lighter and brought no animal, least of all this one that Sam is fond of, if I had had my way.
I feared all along that we should be obliged to take this road.
Here the Elven-way from Hollin ended.
Holly was the token of the people of that land, and they planted it here to mark the end of their domain; for the West-door was made chiefly for their use in their traffic with the Lords of Moria.
Those were happier days, when there was still close friendship at times between folk of different race, even between Dwarves and Elves.
But I beg you two, Legolas and Gimli, at least to be friends, and to help me.
I need you both.
The doors are shut and hidden, and the sooner we find them the better. Night is at hand!
Go with words of guard and guiding on you.
You are a wise beast, and have learned much in Rivendell.
Make your ways to places where you can find grass, and so come in time to Elrond's house, or wherever you wish to go.
There, Sam! He will have quite as much chance of escaping wolves and getting home as we have.
Some dwarf-gates will open only at special times, or for particular persons; and some have locks and keys that are still needed when all necessary times and words are known.
These doors have no key. In the days of Durin they were not secret.
They usually stood open and doorwards sat here.
But if they were shut, any who knew the opening word could speak it and pass in.
At least so it is recorded, is it not, Gimli?
you may ask what is the use of my deeds when they are proved useless.
As for your other question: do you doubt my tale? Or have you no wits left?
I did not enter this way. I came from the East.
But if that does not shatter them, and I am allowed a little peace from foolish questions, I will seek for the opening words.
I can still remember ten score of them without searching in my mind.
But only a few trials, I think, will be needed; and I shall not have to call on Gimli for words of the secret dwarf-tongue that they teach to none.
The opening words were Elvish, like the writing on the arch: that seems certain.
We shall have a Council, as soon as you are well enough. At the moment I will only say that I was held captive.
He thinks less than he talks, and slower; yet he can see through a brick wall in time (as they say in Bree).
But there are few left in Middle-earth like Aragorn son of Arathorn.
The race of the Kings from over the Sea is nearly at an end.
It may be that this War of the Ring will be their last adventure.
You have talked and reckoned more than is good for you.
How do the side and shoulder feel now?
It is mending fast. You will soon be sound again.
Elrond has cured you: he has tended you for days, ever since you were brought in.
And it seems that Hobbits fade very reluctantly.
I have known strong warriors of the Big People who would quickly have been overcome by that splinter, which you bore for seventeen days.
Yes, fortune or fate have helped you, not to mention courage.
For your heart was not touched, and only your shoulder was pierced; and that was because you resisted to the last.
But it was a terribly narrow shave, so to speak.
You were in gravest peril while you wore the Ring, for then you were half in the wraith-world yourself, and they might have seized you.
You could see them, and they could see you.
Because they are real horses; just as the black robes are real robes that they wear to give shape to their nothingness when they have dealings with the living.
Yes, at present, until all else is conquered.
The Elves may fear the Dark Lord, and they may fly before him, but never again will they listen to him or serve him.
And here in Rivendell there live still some of his chief foes: the Elven-wise, lords of the Eldar from beyond the furthest seas.
They do not fear the Ringwraiths, for those who have dwelt in the Blessed Realm live at once in both worlds, and against both the Seen and the Unseen they have great power.
Yes, you saw him for a moment as he is upon the other side: one of the mighty of the Firstborn.
He is an Elf-lord of a house of princes. Indeed there is a power in Rivendell to withstand the might of Mordor, for a while: and elsewhere other powers still dwell.
There is power, too, of another kind in the Shire.
But all such places will soon become islands under siege, if things go on as they are going.
The Dark Lord is putting forth all his strength.
Still, we must keep up our courage.
You will soon be well, if I do not talk you to death.
You are in Rivendell, and you need not worry about anything for the present.